This is a file which contains details about medical conditions, diagnoses, and histories.
Question: How many people are affected by short QT syndrome ?
Answer: Short QT syndrome appears to be rare. At least 70 cases have been identified worldwide since the condition was discovered in 2000. However, the condition may be underdiagnosed because some affected individuals never experience symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is osteoglophonic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, some affected individuals inherit the mutation from an affected parent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Insomnia ?
Answer: Lifestyle changes often can help relieve acute (short-term) insomnia. These changes might make it easier to fall asleep and stay asleep.
                
A type of counseling called cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) can help relieve the anxiety linked to chronic (ongoing) insomnia. Anxiety tends to prolong insomnia.
                
Several medicines also can help relieve insomnia and re-establish a regular sleep schedule. However, if your insomnia is the symptom or side effect of another problem, it's important to treat the underlying cause (if possible).
                
Lifestyle Changes
                
If you have insomnia, avoid substances that make it worse, such as:
                
Caffeine, tobacco, and other stimulants. The effects of these substances can last as long as 8 hours.
                
Certain over-the-counter and prescription medicines that can disrupt sleep (for example, some cold and allergy medicines). Talk with your doctor about which medicines won't disrupt your sleep.
                
Alcohol. An alcoholic drink before bedtime might make it easier for you to fall asleep. However, alcohol triggers sleep that tends to be lighter than normal. This makes it more likely that you will wake up during the night.
                
Try to adopt bedtime habits that make it easier to fall asleep and stay asleep. Follow a routine that helps you wind down and relax before bed. For example, read a book, listen to soothing music, or take a hot bath.
                
Try to schedule your daily exercise at least 5 to 6 hours before going to bed. Don't eat heavy meals or drink a lot before bedtime.
                
Make your bedroom sleep-friendly. Avoid bright lighting while winding down. Try to limit possible distractions, such as a TV, computer, or pet. Make sure the temperature of your bedroom is cool and comfortable. Your bedroom also should be dark and quiet.
                
Go to sleep around the same time each night and wake up around the same time each morning, even on weekends. If you can, avoid night shifts, alternating schedules, or other things that may disrupt your sleep schedule.
                
Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy
                
CBT for insomnia targets the thoughts and actions that can disrupt sleep. This therapy encourages good sleep habits and uses several methods to relieve sleep anxiety.
                
For example, relaxation techniques and biofeedback are used to reduce anxiety. These strategies help you better control your breathing, heart rate, muscles, and mood.
                
CBT also aims to replace sleep anxiety with more positive thinking that links being in bed with being asleep. This method also teaches you what to do if you're unable to fall asleep within a reasonable time.
                
CBT also may involve talking with a therapist one-on-one or in group sessions to help you consider your thoughts and feelings about sleep. This method may encourage you to describe thoughts racing through your mind in terms of how they look, feel, and sound. The goal is for your mind to settle down and stop racing.
                
CBT also focuses on limiting the time you spend in bed while awake. This method involves setting a sleep schedule. At first, you will limit your total time in bed to the typical short length of time you're usually asleep.
                
This schedule might make you even more tired because some of the allotted time in bed will be taken up by problems falling asleep. However, the resulting tiredness is intended to help you get to sleep more quickly. Over time, the length of time spent in bed is increased until you get a full night of sleep.
                
For success with CBT, you may need to see a therapist who is skilled in this approach weekly over 2 to 3 months. CBT works as well as prescription medicine for many people who have chronic insomnia. It also may provide better long-term relief than medicine alone.
                
For people who have insomnia and major depressive disorder, CBT combined with antidepression medicines has shown promise in relieving both conditions.
                
Medicines
                
Prescription Medicines
                
Many prescription medicines are used to treat insomnia. Some are meant for short-term use, while others are meant for longer use.
                
Talk to your doctor about the benefits and side effects of insomnia medicines. For example, insomnia medicines can help you fall asleep, but you may feel groggy in the morning after taking them.
                
Rare side effects of these medicines include sleep eating, sleep walking, or driving while asleep. If you have side effects from an insomnia medicine, or if it doesn't work well, tell your doctor. He or she might prescribe a different medicine.
                
Some insomnia medicines can be habit forming. Ask your doctor about the benefits and risks of insomnia medicines.
                
Over-the-Counter Products
                
Some over-the-counter (OTC) products claim to treat insomnia. These products include melatonin, L-tryptophan supplements, and valerian teas or extracts.
                
The Food and Drug Administration doesn't regulate natural products and some food supplements. Thus, the dose and purity of these substances can vary. How well these products work and how safe they are isn't well understood.
                
Some OTC products that contain antihistamines are sold as sleep aids. Although these products might make you sleepy, talk to your doctor before taking them.
                
Antihistamines pose risks for some people. Also, these products may not offer the best treatment for your insomnia. Your doctor can advise you whether these products will benefit you.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Idiopathic juxtafoveal retinal telangiectasia ?
Answer: How might idiopathic juxtafoveal retinal telangiectasia (IJT) be treated? Laser photocoagulation of areas of leakage may be helpful in treating vision loss in people with certain subtypes of IJT, such as Group 1A. A laser is a powerful beam of light which can be focused on the retina. Small "bursts" of the laser can be used to seal leaky blood vessels, destroy abnormal blood vessels, seal retinal tears, and destroy abnormal tissue in the back of the eye. Photocoagulation usually is not considered for people with people in Group 1B because of the closeness of the leakage to the fovea, and the good prognosis without treatment. It may benefit people in Group 2 but in most cases, the abnormal lesions are so close to the fovea that treatment is difficult.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a neurological disorder that damages the myelin that covers and protects nerves in the white matter of the brain. It is caused by the JC virus (JCV). By age 10, most people have been infected with this virus, but it rarely causes symptoms unless the immune system becomes severely weakened. The disease occurs, rarely, in organ transplant patients; people undergoing chronic corticosteroid or immunosuppressive therapy; and individuals with cancer, such as Hodgkins disease, lymphoma, and sarcoidosis.  PML is most common among individuals with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Ataxia telangiectasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Ataxia telangiectasia? Ataxia-telangiectasia affects the nervous system, immune system, and other body systems. This disorder is characterized by progressive difficulty with coordinating movements (ataxia) beginning in early childhood, usually before age 5. Affected children typically develop difficulty walking, problems with balance and hand coordination, involuntary jerking movements (chorea), muscle twitches (myoclonus), and disturbances in nerve function (neuropathy). The movement problems typically cause people to require wheelchair assistance by adolescence. People with this disorder also have slurred speech and trouble moving their eyes to look side-to-side (oculomotor apraxia). Small clusters of enlarged blood vessels called telangiectases, which occur in the eyes and on the surface of the skin, are also characteristic of this condition. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ataxia telangiectasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of chromosome stability 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thymus 90% Cellular immunodeficiency 90% Decreased antibody level in blood 90% Elevated hepatic transaminases 90% Gait disturbance 90% Incoordination 90% Lymphopenia 90% Mucosal telangiectasiae 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Nystagmus 90% Polycystic ovaries 90% Premature graying of hair 90% Recurrent respiratory infections 90% Strabismus 90% Telangiectasia of the skin 90% Tremor 90% Hypertonia 50% Hypopigmentation of hair 50% Neoplasm 50% Seizures 50% Short stature 50% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Abnormality of the testis 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 7.5% Cafe-au-lait spot 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Type II diabetes mellitus 7.5% Abnormal spermatogenesis - Abnormality of the hair - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bronchiectasis - Choreoathetosis - Conjunctival telangiectasia - Decreased number of CD4+ T cells - Defective B cell differentiation - Delayed puberty - Diabetes mellitus - Dysarthria - Dystonia - Elevated alpha-fetoprotein - Female hypogonadism - Glucose intolerance - Hodgkin lymphoma - Hypoplasia of the thymus - IgA deficiency - Immunoglobulin IgG2 deficiency - Leukemia - Myoclonus - Non-Hodgkin lymphoma - Recurrent bronchitis - Sinusitis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Pseudopelade of Brocq ?
Answer: Pseudopelade of Brocq (PBB) is a slowly progressive, chronic condition characterized by scarring hair loss (cicatricial alopecia). There exists some controversy as to whether PBB is a distinct condition or the common final stage or variant of several different forms of scarring alopecias such as discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE) or lichen planopilaris (LPP). Some have suggested abandoning the use of the term pseudopelade of Brocq while others think that the term should be strictly used to describe patients that follow the pattern of hair loss described by Brocq et al.(i.e., multiple, small, discrete, asymmetrical, smooth, soft, flesh-colored or white patches of hair loss with little, if any, inflammation). Although the exact cause of PBB has not been identified, it is believed to be an autoimmune disease. Some individuals with PBB have been found to have Borrelia burgdorferi, the bacterium that causes Lyme disease.  Neither an effective treatment nor cure is currently available.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by 22q11.2 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: 22q11.2 deletion syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 4,000 people. However, the condition may actually be more common than this estimate because doctors and researchers suspect it is underdiagnosed due to its variable features. The condition may not be identified in people with mild signs and symptoms, or it may be mistaken for other disorders with overlapping features.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Diabetic Heart Disease ?
Answer: At least four complex processes, alone or combined, can lead to diabetic heart disease (DHD). They include coronary atherosclerosis; metabolic syndrome; insulin resistance in people who have type 2 diabetes; and the interaction of coronary heart disease (CHD), high blood pressure, and diabetes.
                
Researchers continue to study these processes because all of the details aren't yet known.
                
Coronary Atherosclerosis
                
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. The exact cause of atherosclerosis isn't known. However, studies show that it is a slow, complex disease that may start in childhood. The disease develops faster as you age.
                
Coronary atherosclerosis may start when certain factors damage the inner layers of the coronary (heart) arteries. These factors include:
                
Smoking
                
High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High amounts of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
Plaque may begin to build up where the arteries are damaged. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows the arteries. This reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle.
                
Eventually, an area of plaque can rupture (break open). When this happens, blood cell fragments called platelets (PLATE-lets) stick to the site of the injury. They may clump together to form blood clots.
                
Blood clots narrow the coronary arteries even more. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart and may worsen angina (chest pain) or cause a heart attack.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk of both CHD and type 2 diabetes.
                
If you have three or more of the five metabolic risk factors, you have metabolic syndrome. The risk factors are:
                
A large waistline (a waist measurement of 35 inches or more for women and 40 inches or more for men).
                
A high triglyceride (tri-GLIH-seh-ride) level (or youre on medicine to treat high triglycerides). Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood.
                
A low HDL cholesterol level (or you're on medicine to treat low HDL cholesterol). HDL sometimes is called "good" cholesterol. This is because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries.
                
High blood pressure (or youre on medicine to treat high blood pressure).
                
A high fasting blood sugar level (or you're on medicine to treat high blood sugar).
                
It's unclear whether these risk factors have a common cause or are mainly related by their combined effects on the heart.
                
Obesity seems to set the stage for metabolic syndrome. Obesity can cause harmful changes in body fats and how the body uses insulin.
                
Chronic (ongoing) inflammation also may occur in people who have metabolic syndrome. Inflammation is the body's response to illness or injury. It may raise your risk of CHD and heart attack. Inflammation also may contribute to or worsen metabolic syndrome.
                
Research is ongoing to learn more about metabolic syndrome and how metabolic risk factors interact.
                
Insulin Resistance in People Who Have Type 2 Diabetes
                
Type 2 diabetes usually begins with insulin resistance. Insulin resistance means that the body can't properly use the insulin it makes.
                
People who have type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance have higher levels of substances in the blood that cause blood clots. Blood clots can block the coronary arteries and cause a heart attack or even death.
                
The Interaction of Coronary Heart Disease, High Blood Pressure, and Diabetes
                
Each of these risk factors alone can damage the heart. CHD reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle. High blood pressure and diabetes may cause harmful changes in the structure and function of the heart.
                
Having CHD, high blood pressure, and diabetes is even more harmful to the heart. Together, these conditions can severely damage the heart muscle. As a result, the heart has to work harder than normal. Over time, the heart weakens and isnt able to pump enough blood to meet the bodys needs. This condition is called heart failure.
                
As the heart weakens, the body may release proteins and other substances into the blood. These proteins and substances also can harm the heart and worsen heart failure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Primary Hyperparathyroidism ?
Answer: Primary hyperparathyroidism is a disorder of the parathyroid glands, also called parathyroids. Primary means this disorder originates in the parathyroid glands. In primary hyperparathyroidism, one or more of the parathyroid glands are overactive. As a result, the gland releases too much parathyroid hormone (PTH). The disorder includes the problems that occur in the rest of the body as a result of too much PTHfor example, loss of calcium from bones.
                
In the United States, about 100,000 people develop primary hyperparathyroidism each year.1 The disorder is diagnosed most often in people between age 50 and 60, and women are affected about three times as often as men.2
                
Secondary, or reactive, hyperparathyroidism can occur if a problem such as kidney failure causes the parathyroid glands to be overactive.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Hand Injuries and Disorders ?
Answer: No matter how old you are or what you do for a living, you are always using your hands. When there is something wrong with them, you may not be able to do your regular activities.     Hand problems include        -  Carpal tunnel syndrome - compression of a nerve as it goes through the wrist, often making your fingers feel numb     - Injuries that result in fractures, ruptured ligaments and dislocations     -  Osteoarthritis - wear-and-tear arthritis, which can also cause deformity     -  Tendinitis - irritation of the tendons     - Disorders and injuries of your fingers and thumb
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for histidinemia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of histidinemia:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Histidinemia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to androgen insensitivity syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the AR gene cause androgen insensitivity syndrome. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called an androgen receptor. Androgen receptors allow cells to respond to androgens, which are hormones (such as testosterone) that direct male sexual development. Androgens and androgen receptors also have other important functions in both males and females, such as regulating hair growth and sex drive. Mutations in the AR gene prevent androgen receptors from working properly, which makes cells less responsive to androgens or prevents cells from using these hormones at all. Depending on the level of androgen insensitivity, an affected person's sex characteristics can vary from mostly female to mostly male.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: How might pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency be treated? Treatment of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) deficiency rarely influences the course of the disease, but goals include stimulating the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC), providing alternative sources of energy, and preventing immediate, acute worsening of the condition. However, even with treatment, damage to the central nervous system is common. Lactic acid accumulation may be lessened by giving a high fat/low carbohydrate (ketogenic) diet, but this does not alleviate the neurological symptoms, because structural damage in the brain is typically present from before birth. There is some evidence that a medication called dichloroacetate may reduce the metabolic issues in some patients. The standard of care is to supplement cofactors, which are substances in the body that help the chemical reactions in the cells to occur; these include thiamine, carnitine, and lipoic acid. The individuals with PDH deficiency that respond to these cofactors (especially thiamine) usually have a better outcome. However, giving all of these cofactors to all patients with PDH deficiency is typical in order to optimize pyruvate dehydrogenase complex function. Oral citrate is often used to treat acidosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is reported to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. However, some people with only one SERPINA6 gene mutation may have symptoms such as fatigue or chronic pain. Alternatively, individuals with two SERPINA6 gene mutations may not have any features of the disorder. It is unclear why some people with mutations have features of the disorder and others do not.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Hereditary lymphedema type II ?
Answer: Hereditary lymphedema type II is a primary lymphedema that results from abnormal transport of lymph fluid. Individuals with this condition usually develop swelling in the lower legs and feet during puberty. Some affected individuals develop a non-contagious skin infection called cellulitis, which can further damage the lymphatic vessels (the thin tubes that carry lymph fluid). While the cause of hereditary lymphedema type II is unknown, it is thought to be genetic because it tends to run in families. It appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for gray platelet syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of gray platelet syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Gray platelet syndrome  - National Heart Lung and Blood Institute: How is Thrombocytopenia Treated?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Coma ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to coma in their laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent and treat coma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Who is at risk for Pituitary Tumors? ?
Answer: Having certain genetic conditions increases the risk of developing a pituitary tumor.Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for pituitary tumors include having the following hereditary diseases:         -  Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome.    -  Carney complex.    - Isolated familial acromegaly.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the genetic changes related to atopic dermatitis ?
Answer: The genetics of atopic dermatitis are not completely understood. Studies suggest that several genes can be involved in development of the condition. The strongest association is with the FLG gene, which is mutated in 20 to 30 percent of people with atopic dermatitis compared with 8 to 10 percent of the general population without atopic dermatitis.  The FLG gene provides instructions for making a protein called profilaggrin, which is cut (cleaved) to produce multiple copies of the filaggrin protein. Filaggrin is involved in creating the structure of the outermost layer of skin, creating a strong barrier to keep in water and keep out foreign substances, including toxins, bacteria, and substances that can cause allergic reactions (allergens), such as pollen and dust. Further processing of the filaggrin protein produces other molecules that are part of the skin's "natural moisturizing factor," which helps maintain hydration of the outermost layer of skin.  Mutations in the FLG gene lead to production of an abnormally short profilaggrin molecule that cannot be cleaved to produce filaggrin proteins. The resulting shortage of filaggrin can impair the barrier function of the skin. In addition, a lack of natural moisturizing factor allows excess water loss through the skin, which can lead to dry skin.  Research shows that impairment of the skin's barrier function contributes to development of allergic disorders. An allergic reaction occurs when the body mistakenly recognizes a harmless substance, such as pollen, as a danger and stimulates an immune response to it. Research suggests that without a properly functioning barrier, allergens are able to get into the body through the skin. For unknown reasons, in susceptible individuals the body reacts as if the allergen is harmful and produces immune proteins called IgE antibodies specific to the allergen. Upon later encounters with the allergen, IgE antibodies recognize it, which stimulates an immune response, causing the symptoms of allergies, such as itchy, watery eyes or breathing difficulty. Although atopic dermatitis is not initially caused by an allergic reaction, flare-ups of the rashes can be triggered by allergens. The impaired barrier function caused by FLG gene mutations also contributes to the increased risk of asthma and other allergic disorders in people with atopic dermatitis.  Mutations in many other genes, most of which have not been identified, are likely associated with development of atopic dermatitis. Researchers suspect these genes are involved in the skin's barrier function or in the function of the immune system. However, not everyone with a mutation in FLG or another associated gene develops atopic dermatitis; exposure to certain environmental factors also contributes to the development of the disorder. Studies suggest that these exposures trigger epigenetic changes to the DNA. Epigenetic changes modify DNA without changing the DNA sequence. They can affect gene activity and regulate the production of proteins, which may influence the development of allergies in susceptible individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) genitopatellar syndrome ?
Answer: Genitopatellar syndrome is a rare condition characterized by genital abnormalities, missing or underdeveloped kneecaps (patellae), intellectual disability, and abnormalities affecting other parts of the body.  The genital abnormalities in affected males typically include undescended testes (cryptorchidism) and underdevelopment of the scrotum. Affected females can have an enlarged clitoris (clitoromegaly) and small labia.  Missing or underdeveloped patellae is the most common skeletal abnormality associated with genitopatellar syndrome. Affected individuals may have additional skeletal problems, including joint deformities (contractures) involving the hips and knees or an inward- and upward-turning foot called a clubfoot. Bone abnormalities of the spine, ribs, collarbone (clavicle), and pelvis have also been reported.  Genitopatellar syndrome is also associated with delayed development and intellectual disability, which are often severe. Affected individuals may have an usually small head (microcephaly) and structural brain abnormalities, including underdeveloped or absent tissue connecting the left and right halves of the brain (agenesis of the corpus callosum).  People with genitopatellar syndrome may have distinctive facial features such as prominent cheeks and eyes, a nose with a rounded tip or a broad bridge, an unusually small chin (micrognathia) or a chin that protrudes (prognathism), and a narrowing of the head at the temples. Many affected infants have weak muscle tone (hypotonia) that leads to breathing and feeding difficulties. The condition can also be associated with abnormalities of the heart, kidneys, and teeth.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Autoimmune hepatitis ?
Answer: How might autoimmune hepatitis be treated? Some people with mild forms of autoimmune hepatitis may not need to take medication. Doctors assess each patient individually to determine whether those with mild autoimmune hepatitis should undergo treatment. Treatment works best when autoimmune hepatitis is diagnosed early. With proper treatment, autoimmune hepatitis can usually be controlled. In fact, studies show that sustained response to treatment stops the disease from getting worse and may reverse some of the damage. The primary treatment is medicine to suppress, or slow down, an overactive immune system. Prednisone or other corticosteroids help reduce the inflammation. Azathioprine and mercaptopurine are drugs used to treat other autoimmune disorders, which have shown to help patients with autoimmune hepatitis as well. In about seven out of 10 people, the disease goes into remission within 3 years of starting treatment. Remission occurs when symptoms disappear and lab tests show improvement in liver function. Some people can eventually stop treatment, although many will see the disease return. People who stop treatment must carefully monitor their condition and promptly report any new symptoms to their doctor. Treatment with low doses of prednisone or azathioprine may be necessary on and off for years, if not for life. People who do not respond to standard immune therapy or who have severe side effects may benefit from other immunosuppressive agents such as mycophenylate mofetil, cyclosporine, or tacrolimus. People who progress to end-stage liver diseasealso called liver failureor cirrhosis may need a liver transplant. Transplantation has a 1-year survival rate of 90 percent and a 5-year survival rate of 70 to 80 percent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Birthmarks ?
Answer: Birthmarks are abnormalities of the skin that are present when a baby is born. There are two types of birthmarks. Vascular birthmarks are made up of blood vessels that haven't formed correctly. They are usually red. Two types of vascular birthmarks are hemangiomas and port-wine stains. Pigmented birthmarks are made of a cluster of pigment cells which cause color in skin. They can be many different colors, from tan to brown, gray to black, or even blue. Moles can be birthmarks.    No one knows what causes many types of birthmarks, but some run in families. Your baby's doctor will look at the birthmark to see if it needs any treatment or if it should be watched. Pigmented birthmarks aren't usually treated, except for moles. Treatment for vascular birthmarks includes laser surgery.     Most birthmarks are not serious, and some go away on their own. Some stay the same or get worse as you get older. Usually birthmarks are only a concern for your appearance. But certain types can increase your risk of skin cancer. If your birthmark bleeds, hurts, itches, or becomes infected, call your health care provider.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Carbon Monoxide Poisoning ?
Answer: Carbon monoxide (CO) is a gas that has no odor or color. But it is very dangerous. It can cause sudden illness and death. CO is found in combustion fumes, such as those made by cars and trucks, lanterns, stoves, gas ranges and heating systems. CO from these fumes can build up in places that don't have a good flow of fresh air. You can be poisoned by breathing them in. The most common symptoms of CO poisoning are       -  Headache    -  Dizziness    -  Weakness    -  Nausea    -  Vomiting    -  Chest pain    -  Confusion       It is often hard to tell if someone has CO poisoning, because the symptoms may be like those of other illnesses. People who are sleeping or intoxicated can die from CO poisoning before they have symptoms. A CO detector can warn you if you have high levels of CO in your home.     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for nephronophthisis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of nephronophthisis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Adolescent nephronophthisis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Infantile nephronophthisis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 11  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 12  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 14  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 15  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 16  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 18  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 7  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nephronophthisis 9  - Merck Manual Professional Edition   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to deafness and myopia syndrome ?
Answer: Deafness and myopia syndrome is caused by mutations in the SLITRK6 gene. The protein produced from this gene is found primarily in the inner ear and the eye. This protein promotes growth and survival of nerve cells (neurons) in the inner ear that transmit auditory signals. It also controls (regulates) the growth of the eye after birth. In particular, the SLITRK6 protein influences the length of the eyeball (axial length), which affects whether a person will be nearsighted or farsighted, or will have normal vision. The SLITRK6 protein spans the cell membrane, where it is anchored in the proper position to perform its function.  SLITRK6 gene mutations that cause deafness and myopia syndrome result in an abnormally short SLITRK6 protein that is not anchored properly to the cell membrane. As a result, the protein is unable to function normally. Impaired SLITRK6 protein function leads to abnormal nerve development in the inner ear and improperly controlled eyeball growth, resulting in the hearing loss and nearsightedness that occur in deafness and myopia syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Bronchitis ?
Answer: Espaol
                
Bronchitis (bron-KI-tis) is a condition in which the bronchial tubes become inflamed. These tubes carry air to your lungs. (For more information about the bronchial tubes and airways, go to the Diseases and Conditions Index How the Lungs Work article.)
                
People who have bronchitis often have a cough that brings up mucus. Mucus is a slimy substance made by the lining of the bronchial tubes. Bronchitis also may cause wheezing (a whistling or squeaky sound when you breathe), chest pain or discomfort, a low fever, and shortness of breath.
                
Bronchitis
                

                
Overview
                
The two main types of bronchitis are acute (short term) and chronic (ongoing).
                
Acute Bronchitis
                
Infections or lung irritants cause acute bronchitis. The same viruses that cause colds and the flu are the most common cause of acute bronchitis. These viruses are spread through the air when people cough. They also are spread through physical contact (for example, on hands that have not been washed).
                
Sometimes bacteria cause acute bronchitis.
                
Acute bronchitis lasts from a few days to 10 days. However, coughing may last for several weeks after the infection is gone.
                
Several factors increase your risk for acute bronchitis. Examples include exposure to tobacco smoke (including secondhand smoke), dust, fumes, vapors, and air pollution. Avoiding these lung irritants as much as possible can help lower your risk for acute bronchitis.
                
Most cases of acute bronchitis go away within a few days. If you think you have acute bronchitis, see your doctor. He or she will want to rule out other, more serious health conditions that require medical care.
                
Chronic Bronchitis
                
Chronic bronchitis is an ongoing, serious condition. It occurs if the lining of the bronchial tubes is constantly irritated and inflamed, causing a long-term cough with mucus. Smoking is the main cause of chronic bronchitis.
                
Viruses or bacteria can easily infect the irritated bronchial tubes. If this happens, the condition worsens and lasts longer. As a result, people who have chronic bronchitis have periods when symptoms get much worse than usual.
                
Chronic bronchitis is a serious, long-term medical condition. Early diagnosis and treatment, combined with quitting smoking and avoiding secondhand smoke, can improve quality of life. The chance of complete recovery is low for people who have severe chronic bronchitis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: At present, there is no cure for PD, but a variety of medications provide dramatic relief from the symptoms. Usually, affected individuals are given levodopa combined with carbidopa. Carbidopa delays the conversion of levodopa into dopamine until it reaches the brain. Nerve cells can use levodopa to make dopamine and replenish the brain's dwindling supply. Although levodopa helps at least three-quarters of parkinsonian cases, not all symptoms respond equally to the drug. Bradykinesia and rigidity respond best, while tremor may be only marginally reduced. Problems with balance and other symptoms may not be alleviated at all. Anticholinergics may help control tremor and rigidity. Other drugs, such as bromocriptine, pramipexole, and ropinirole, mimic the role of dopamine in the brain, causing the neurons to react as they would to dopamine. An antiviral drug, amantadine, also appears to reduce symptoms. In May 2006, the FDA approved rasagiline to be used along with levodopa for patients with advanced PD or as a single-drug treatment for early PD.
                
In some cases, surgery may be appropriate if the disease doesn't respond to drugs. A therapy called deep brain stimulation (DBS) has now been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In DBS, electrodes are implanted into the brain and connected to a small electrical device called a pulse generator that can be externally programmed. DBS can reduce the need for levodopa and related drugs, which in turn decreases the involuntary movements called dyskinesias that are a common side effect of levodopa. It also helps to alleviate fluctuations of symptoms and to reduce tremors, slowness of movements, and gait problems. DBS requires careful programming of the stimulator device in order to work correctly.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is lattice corneal dystrophy type II inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Although a mutation in one copy of the gene can cause the disorder, people with mutations in both copies of the gene have more severe signs and symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Salih myopathy ?
Answer: Salih myopathy is caused by mutations in the TTN gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called titin, which plays an important role in skeletal and cardiac muscle function.  Within muscle cells, titin is an essential component of structures called sarcomeres. Sarcomeres are the basic units of muscle contraction; they are made of proteins that generate the mechanical force needed for muscles to contract. Titin has several functions within sarcomeres. One of this protein's most important jobs is to provide structure, flexibility, and stability to these cell structures. Titin also plays a role in chemical signaling and in assembling new sarcomeres.  The TTN gene mutations responsible for Salih myopathy lead to the production of an abnormally short version of titin. The defective protein disrupts the function of sarcomeres, which prevents skeletal and cardiac muscle from contracting normally. These muscle abnormalities underlie the features of Salih myopathy, including skeletal muscle weakness and dilated cardiomyopathy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Pinkeye ?
Answer: Conjunctivitis is the medical name for pink eye. It involves inflammation of the outer layer of the eye and inside of the eyelid. It can cause swelling, itching, burning, discharge, and redness. Causes include        - Bacterial or viral infection    - Allergies     - Substances that cause irritation    - Contact lens products, eye drops, or eye ointments       Pinkeye usually does not affect vision. Infectious pink eye can easily spread from one person to another. The infection will clear in most cases without medical care, but bacterial pinkeye needs treatment with antibiotic eye drops or ointment.    NIH: National Eye Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Bipolar Disorder ?
Answer: Bipolar disorder is a serious mental illness. People who have it go through unusual mood changes. They go from very happy, "up," and active to very sad and hopeless, "down," and inactive, and then back again. They often have normal moods in between. The up feeling is called mania. The down feeling is depression.    The causes of bipolar disorder aren't always clear. It runs in families. Abnormal brain structure and function may also play a role.    Bipolar disorder often starts in a person's late teen or early adult years. But children and adults can have bipolar disorder too. The illness usually lasts a lifetime.    If you think you may have it, tell your health care provider. A medical checkup can rule out other illnesses that might cause your mood changes.    If not treated, bipolar disorder can lead to damaged relationships, poor job or school performance, and even suicide. However, there are effective treatments to control symptoms: medicine and talk therapy. A combination usually works best.    NIH: National Institute of Mental Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Yellow nail syndrome ?
Answer: How are the respiratory conditions associated with yellow nail syndrome treated? You can find further information on treatment of pleural effusions, bronchitis, sinusitis, and pneumonia at the following links to MedlinePlus.gov, the National Library of Medicine Web site designed to help you research your health questions. Pleural effusions: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000086.htm Bronchitis: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/chronicbronchitis.html Sinusitis: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/sinusitis.html Pneumonia: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/pneumonia.html
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Weaver syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Weaver syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Weaver syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Accelerated skeletal maturation 90% Broad forehead 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Cutis laxa 90% Hypertelorism 90% Hypoplastic toenails 90% Long philtrum 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Macrocephaly 90% Macrotia 90% Tall stature 90% Abnormality of thumb phalanx 50% Broad foot 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Deep philtrum 50% Fine hair 50% Hernia of the abdominal wall 50% Large hands 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Round face 50% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Joint hypermobility 7.5% Pes cavus 7.5% Sandal gap 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Talipes 7.5% Abnormally low-pitched voice - Absent septum pellucidum - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Behavioral abnormality - Broad thumb - Calcaneovalgus deformity - Camptodactyly - Chin dimple - Clinodactyly - Coxa valga - Deep-set nails - Delayed speech and language development - Depressed nasal bridge - Diastasis recti - Dilation of lateral ventricles - Dysarthria - Dysharmonic bone age - Epicanthus - Flared femoral metaphysis - Flared humeral metaphysis - Hydrocele testis - Hypertonia - Hypoplastic iliac wing - Inguinal hernia - Intellectual disability - Inverted nipples - Joint contracture of the hand - Kyphosis - Limited elbow extension - Limited knee extension - Mandibular prognathia - Muscular hypotonia - Overlapping toe - Prominent fingertip pads - Radial deviation of finger - Retrognathia - Seizures - Short fourth metatarsal - Short ribs - Slurred speech - Sparse hair - Spasticity - Strabismus - Talipes equinovarus - Thin nail - Umbilical hernia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Crusted scabies ?
Answer: Crusted scabies (also called Norwegian scabies) is a severe form of scabies that most often occurs in people who have a weakened immune system, neurological disease, the elderly, the disabled, or those who are mentally incapacitated. It is characterized by thick crusts of skin that contain large numbers of scabies mites and eggs. The usual features of scabies (itching and a rash) are often absent. Crusted scabies  is very contagious and can spread easily both by direct skin-to-skin contacts and through contaminated items such as clothing, bedding, and furniture. People with crusted scabies should receive quick and agressive medical treatment for their infestation to prevent outbreaks of scabies. Ivermectin is commonly used to treat this form of scabies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Merkel Cell Carcinoma ?
Answer: Tests and procedures that examine the skin are used to detect (find) and diagnose Merkel cell carcinoma. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -  Full-body skin exam: A doctor or nurse checks the skin for bumps or spots that look abnormal in color, size, shape, or texture. The size, shape, and texture of the lymph nodes will also be checked.    -  Skin biopsy : The removal of skin cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for juvenile Batten disease ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of juvenile Batten disease:  - Batten Disease Diagnostic and Clinical Research Center at the University of Rochester Medical Center  - Batten Disease Support and Research Association: Centers of Excellence  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Neuronal Ceroid-Lipofuscinoses  - Genetic Testing Registry: Juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Liver (Hepatocellular) Cancer? ?
Answer: Being infected with certain types of the hepatitis virus can cause hepatitis and increase the risk of liver cancer.
                    Hepatitis is most commonly caused by the hepatitis virus. Hepatitis is a disease that causes inflammation (swelling) of the liver. Damage to the liver from hepatitis that lasts a long time can increase the risk of liver cancer.    There are six types of the hepatitis virus. Hepatitis A (HAV), hepatitis B (HBV), and hepatitis C (HCV) are the three most common types. These three viruses cause similar symptoms, but the ways they spread and affect the liver are different.    The Hepatitis A vaccine and the hepatitis B vaccine prevent infection with hepatitis A and hepatitis B. There is no vaccine to prevent infection with hepatitis C. If a person has had one type of hepatitis in the past, it is still possible to get the other types.   Hepatitis viruses include:     Hepatitis A    Hepatitis A is caused by eating food or drinking water infected with hepatitis A virus. It does not lead to chronic disease. People with hepatitis A usually get better without treatment.       Hepatitis B    Hepatitis B is caused by contact with the blood, semen, or other body fluid of a person infected with hepatitis B virus. It is a serious infection that may become chronic and cause scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). This may lead to liver cancer. Blood banks test all donated blood for hepatitis B, which greatly lowers the risk of getting the virus from blood transfusions.       Hepatitis C    Hepatitis C is caused by contact with the blood of a person infected with hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C may range from a mild illness that lasts a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness. Most people who have hepatitis C develop a chronic infection that may cause scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). This may lead to liver cancer. Blood banks test all donated blood for hepatitis C, which greatly lowers the risk of getting the virus from blood transfusions.       Hepatitis D    Hepatitis D develops in people already infected with hepatitis B. It is caused by hepatitis D virus (HDV) and is spread through contact with infected blood or dirty needles, or by having unprotected sex with a person infected with HDV. Hepatitis D causes acute hepatitis.       Hepatitis E    Hepatitis E is caused by hepatitis E virus (HEV). Hepatitis E can be spread through oral- anal contact or by drinking infected water. Hepatitis E is rare in the United States.       Hepatitis G    Being infected with hepatitis G virus (HGV) has not been shown to cause liver cancer.
               
               
                    Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following risk factors may increase the risk of liver cancer:         - Hepatitis B and C     - Cirrhosis     - Aflatoxin        - The following protective factor may decrease the risk of liver cancer:         - Hepatitis B vaccine        - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.     - New ways to prevent liver cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following risk factors may increase the risk of liver cancer:
                    Hepatitis B and C    Having chronic hepatitis B or chronic hepatitis C increases the risk of developing liver cancer. The risk is even greater for people with both hepatitis B and C. Also, the longer the hepatitis infection lasts (especially hepatitis C), the greater the risk.    In a study of patients with chronic hepatitis C, those who were treated to lower their iron levels by having blood drawn and eating a low-iron diet were less likely to develop liver cancer than those who did not have this treatment.       Cirrhosis    The risk of developing liver cancer is increased for people who have cirrhosis, a disease in which healthy liver tissue is replaced by scar tissue. The scar tissue blocks the flow of blood through the liver and keeps it from working as it should. Chronic alcoholism and chronic hepatitis C are the most common causes of cirrhosis.       Aflatoxin    The risk of developing liver cancer may be increased by eating foods that contain aflatoxin (poison from a fungus that can grow on foods, such as grains and nuts, that have not been stored properly).
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 10 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 10 ? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 10 . If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Microcephaly 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Seizures 90% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Apnea - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Cerebral atrophy - Congenital onset - Increased neuronal autofluorescent lipopigment - Intellectual disability, progressive - Intellectual disability, severe - Low-set ears - Neuronal loss in central nervous system - Premature closure of fontanelles - Respiratory failure - Retinal atrophy - Rigidity - Rod-cone dystrophy - Sloping forehead - Spasticity - Status epilepticus - Visual loss - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to type A insulin resistance syndrome ?
Answer: Type A insulin resistance syndrome results from mutations in the INSR gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called an insulin receptor, which is found in many types of cells. Insulin receptors are embedded in the outer membrane surrounding the cell, where they attach (bind) to insulin circulating in the bloodstream. This binding triggers signaling pathways that influence many cell functions.  Most of the INSR gene mutations that cause type A insulin resistance syndrome lead to the production of a faulty insulin receptor that cannot transmit signals properly. Although insulin is present in the bloodstream, the defective receptors make it less able to exert its effects on cells and tissues. This severe resistance to the effects of insulin impairs blood sugar regulation and leads to diabetes mellitus. In females with type A insulin resistance syndrome, excess insulin in the bloodstream interacts with hormonal factors during adolescence to cause abnormalities of the menstrual cycle, ovarian cysts, and other features of the disorder.  This condition is designated as type A to distinguish it from type B insulin resistance syndrome. Although the two disorders have similar signs and symptoms, type B is not caused by INSR gene mutations; instead, it results from an abnormality of the immune system that blocks insulin receptor function.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever (RMSF) ?
Answer: More detailed information on the diagnosis, management, and treatment of tickborne rickettsial diseases is available in Diagnosis and Management of Tickborne Rickettsial Diseases: Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Ehrlichioses, and Anaplasmosis  United States.
*Case definitions have been updated since publication 
How to Contact the Rickettsial Zoonoses Branch at CDC 
                
The general public and healthcare providers should first call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) for questions regarding RMSF and other rickettsial diseases. If a consultation with a CDC scientist specializing in rickettsial diseases is advised, your call will be appropriately forwarded. 
Case Definitions 
                
As of January 1, 2010, cases of RMSF are reported under a new category called Spotted Fever Rickettsiosis (including Rocky Mountain spotted fever). 
  
 
Case Report Forms 
                
For confirmed and probable cases of RMSF that have been identified and reported through the National Notifiable Disease Surveillance System, states are also encouraged to submit additional information using CDC Case Report Forms (CRFs). These forms collect additional important information that routine electronic reporting does not, such as information on how the diagnosis was made, and whether the patient was hospitalized or died. If a different state-specific form is already used to collect this information, this information may be submitted to CDC in lieu of CRFs.  
  
 
How to Submit Specimens to CDC for RMSF Testing 
                
Private citizens may not directly submit specimens to CDC for testing. If you feel that diagnostic testing is necessary, consult your healthcare provider or state health department. 
State Health Departments 
                
Specimens may be submitted to CDC for testing for rickettsial diseases, including RMSF. To coordinate specimen submission, please call 404 639 1075 during business hours (8:00 - 4:30 ET).  
U.S. Healthcare Providers 
                
U.S. healthcare providers should not submit specimens for testing directly to CDC. CDC policy requires that specimens for testing be submitted through or with the approval of the state health department. Please contact your state health department, who will assist you with specimen submission and reporting of an infected patient. For general questions about RMSF, please call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636). If you have questions about a suspect RMSF case, please first consult your state health department. Healthcare providers requiring an epidemiologic consultation on rickettsial diseases may also call 404-639-1075 during business hours (8:00 - 4:30 ET). Or 770-488-7100 after hours.  
Non-U.S. Healthcare Providers 
                
Non-U.S. healthcare providers should consult CDC prior to submitting specimens for testing. For general questions about RMSF, please call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636). If you would like to discuss a suspect rickettsial case with CDC, please call 404-639-1075 during business hours (8:00 - 4:30 ET), or 770-488-7100 after hours.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the treatments for dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Dihydrolipoamide Dehydrogenase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Maple syrup urine disease, type 3   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to short stature, hyperextensibility, hernia, ocular depression, Rieger anomaly, and teething delay ?
Answer: SHORT syndrome results from mutations in the PIK3R1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making one part (subunit) of an enzyme called PI3K, which plays a role in chemical signaling within cells. PI3K signaling is important for many cell activities, including cell growth and division, movement (migration) of cells, production of new proteins, transport of materials within cells, and cell survival. Studies suggest that PI3K signaling may be involved in the regulation of several hormones, including insulin, which helps control blood sugar levels. PI3K signaling may also play a role in the maturation of fat cells (adipocytes).  Mutations in the PIK3R1 gene alter the structure of the subunit, which reduces the ability of PI3K to participate in cell signaling. Researchers are working to determine how these changes lead to the specific features of SHORT syndrome. PI3K's role in insulin activity may be related to the development of insulin resistance and diabetes, and problems with adipocyte maturation might contribute to lipoatrophy in affected individuals. It is unclear how reduced PI3K signaling is associated with the other features of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Childhood Hodgkin lymphoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lymph system.    - There are two types of childhood Hodgkin lymphoma.     - Epstein-Barr virus infection increases the risk of childhood Hodgkin lymphoma.    - Signs of childhood Hodgkin lymphoma include swollen lymph nodes, fever, night sweats, and weight loss.    - Tests that examine the lymph system are used to detect (find) and diagnose childhood Hodgkin lymphoma.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Childhood Hodgkin lymphoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lymph system.
                    Childhood Hodgkin lymphoma is a type of cancer that develops in the lymph system, which is part of the body's immune system. The immune system protects the body from foreign substances, infection, and diseases. The lymph system is made up of the following:         -  Lymph: Colorless, watery fluid that carries white blood cells called lymphocytes through the lymph system. Lymphocytes protect the body against infections and the growth of tumors.    -  Lymph vessels: A network of thin tubes that collect lymph from different parts of the body and return it to the bloodstream.     -  Lymph nodes: Small, bean-shaped structures that filter lymph and store white blood cells that help fight infection and disease. Lymph nodes are located along the network of lymph vessels found throughout the body. Clusters of lymph nodes are found in the neck, underarm, abdomen, pelvis, and groin.    -  Spleen: An organ that makes lymphocytes, filters the blood, stores blood cells, and destroys old blood cells. The spleen is on the left side of the abdomen near the stomach.    -  Thymus: An organ in which lymphocytes grow and multiply. The thymus is in the chest behind the breastbone.    -  Tonsils: Two small masses of lymph tissue at the back of the throat. The tonsils make lymphocytes.    -  Bone marrow: The soft, spongy tissue in the center of large bones. Bone marrow makes white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets.         Lymph tissue is also found in other parts of the body such as the stomach, thyroid gland, brain, and skin.   There are two general types of lymphoma: Hodgkin lymphoma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. (See the PDQ summary on Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment for more information.)     Hodgkin lymphoma often occurs in adolescents 15 to 19 years of age. The treatment for children and adolescents is different than treatment for adults. (See the PDQ summary on Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment for more information.)
                
                
                    There are two types of childhood Hodgkin lymphoma.
                    The two types of childhood Hodgkin lymphoma are:         -  Classical Hodgkin lymphoma.    -  Nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma.        Classical Hodgkin lymphoma is divided into four subtypes, based on how the cancer cells look under a microscope:         - Lymphocyte-rich classical Hodgkin lymphoma.     - Nodular sclerosis Hodgkin lymphoma.     - Mixed cellularity Hodgkin lymphoma.     - Lymphocyte-depleted Hodgkin lymphoma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for MTHFR gene mutation ?
Answer: How might a MTHFR gene mutation be treated? High homocysteine levels in the body may occur if the MTHFR enzyme is not functioning normally due to MTHFR mutations, such as C677T and A1298C. Currently there are no treatments to remove adverse risks associated with MTHFR gene mutations. However, elevated levels of homocysteine can also occur if there is a lack of folate or B vitamins. Homocysteine levels also tend to rise with age, smoking, and use of certain drugs (such as carbamazepine, methotrexate, and phenytoin). It is important to ensure that people with and without MTHFR gene mutations receive adequate amounts of naturally occurring folate, choline, and B vitamins (B12, B6, and riboflavin) to mitigate nutritional risks. If adequate nutrition cannot be attained through diet alone, supplementation with folate (e.g., levomefolate (5-methyl THF) or folinic acid) and B vitamins is considered. We recommend that you talk to your doctor to learn if supplementation would benefit you. Smoking cessation and, when possible, avoidance of medications that adversely affect homocystiene level are additional management strategies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Cysticercosis? ?
Answer: Cysticercosis is an infection caused by the larvae of the tapeworm, Taenia solium. A person with an adult tapeworm, which lives in the persons gut, sheds eggs in the stool.  The infection with the adult tapeworm is called taeniasis.  A pig then eats the eggs in the stool.  The eggs develop into larvae inside the pig and form cysts (called cysticerci) in the pig's muscles or other tissues. The infection with the cysts is called cysticercosis. Humans who eat undercooked or raw infected pork swallow the cysts in the meat. The larvae then come out of their cysts in the human gut and develop into adult tapeworms, completing the cycle.
    
People get cysticercosis when they swallow eggs that are excreted in the stool of people with the adult tapeworm. This may happen when people
    
     - Drink water or eat food contaminated with tapeworm eggs
     - Put contaminated fingers in their mouth
    
    
Cysticercosis is not spread by eating undercooked meat. However, people get infected with tapeworms (taeniasis) by eating undercooked infected pork. People who have tapeworm infections can infect themselves with the eggs and develop cysticercosis (this is called autoinfection). They can also infect other people if they have poor hygiene and contaminate food or water that other people swallow. People who live with someone who has a tapeworm infection in their intestines have a much higher risk of getting cysticercosis than other people.
    
Human cysticercosis is found worldwide, especially in areas where pig cysticercosis is common. Both taeniasis and cysticercosis are most often found in rural areas of developing countries with poor sanitation, where pigs roam freely and eat human feces. Taeniasis and cysticercosis are rare among persons who live in countries where pigs are not raised and in countries where pigs do not have contact with human feces. Although uncommon, cysticercosis can occur in people who have never traveled outside of the United States if they are exposed to tapeworm eggs.
    
More on: Taeniasis
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the symptoms of Lucey-Driscoll syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Lucey-Driscoll syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Lucey-Driscoll syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebral palsy - Jaundice - Kernicterus - Neonatal unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Dowling-Degos disease ?
Answer: Dowling-Degos disease is a skin condition characterized by a lacy or net-like (reticulate) pattern of abnormally dark skin coloring (hyperpigmentation), particularly in the body's folds and creases. These skin changes typically first appear in the armpits and groin area and can later spread to other skin folds such as the crook of the elbow and back of the knee. Less commonly, pigmentation changes can also occur on the wrist, back of the hand, face, scalp, scrotum (in males), and vulva (in females). These areas of hyperpigmentation do not darken with exposure to sunlight and cause no health problems.  Individuals with Dowling-Degos disease may also have dark lesions on the face and back that resemble blackheads, red bumps around the mouth that resemble acne, or depressed or pitted scars on the face similar to acne scars but with no history of acne. Cysts within the hair follicle (pilar cysts) may develop, most commonly on the scalp. Rarely, affected individuals have patches of skin that are unusually light in color (hypopigmented).  The pigmentation changes characteristic of Dowling-Degos disease typically begin in late childhood or in adolescence, although in some individuals, features of the condition do not appear until adulthood. New areas of hyperpigmentation tend to develop over time, and the other skin lesions tend to increase in number as well. While the skin changes caused by Dowling-Degos disease can be bothersome, they typically cause no health problems.  A condition called Galli-Galli disease has signs and symptoms similar to those of Dowling-Degos disease. In addition to pigmentation changes, individuals with Galli-Galli disease also have a breakdown of cells in the outer layer of skin (acantholysis). Acantholysis can cause skin irritation and itchiness. These conditions used to be considered two separate disorders, but Galli-Galli disease and Dowling-Degos disease are now regarded as the same condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is sporadic hemiplegic migraine inherited ?
Answer: Sporadic means that the condition occurs in individuals with no history of the disorder in their family. While most cases result from new (de novo) mutations that likely occur during early embryonic development, some affected individuals inherit the genetic change that causes the condition from an unaffected parent. (When some people with the mutation have no signs and symptoms of the disorder, the condition is said to have reduced penetrance.) Although family members of an affected individual do not have sporadic hemiplegic migraine, some experience migraine headaches without hemiparesis. A related condition, familial hemiplegic migraine, has signs and symptoms identical to those in sporadic hemiplegic migraine but occurs in multiple members of a family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase superactivity ?
Answer: Phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase superactivity (PRS superactivity) is characterized by the overproduction and accumulation of uric acid (a waste product of normal chemical processes) in the blood and urine. The overproduction of uric acid can lead to gout, which is arthritis caused by an accumulation of uric acid crystals in the joints. Individuals with PRS superactivity also develop kidney or bladder stones that may result in episodes of acute kidney failure.  There are two forms of PRS superactivity, a severe form that begins in infancy or early childhood, and a milder form that typically appears in late adolescence or early adulthood. In both forms, a kidney or bladder stone is often the first symptom. Gout and impairment of kidney function may develop if the condition is not adequately controlled with medication and dietary restrictions. People with the severe form may also have neurological problems, including hearing loss caused by changes in the inner ear (sensorineural hearing loss), weak muscle tone (hypotonia), impaired muscle coordination (ataxia), and developmental delay.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by familial hyperaldosteronism ?
Answer: The prevalence of familial hyperaldosteronism is unknown. Familial hyperaldosteronism type II appears to be the most common variety. All types of familial hyperaldosteronism combined account for fewer than 1 out of 10 cases of hyperaldosteronism.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Achondroplasia ?
Answer: How might children with achondroplasia be treated? Recommendations for management of children with achondroplasia were outlined by the American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Genetics in the article, Health Supervision for Children with Achondroplasia. We recommend that you review this article with your childs health care provider(s). These recommendations include:  Monitoring of height, weight, and head circumference using growth curves standardized for achondroplasia  Measures to avoid obesity starting in early childhood.  Careful neurologic examinations, with referral to a pediatric neurologist as necessary  MRI or CT of the foramen magnum region for evaluation of severe hypotonia or signs of spinal cord compression  Obtaining history for possible sleep apnea, with sleep studies as necessary  Evaluation for low thoracic or high lumbar gibbus if truncal weakness is present  Referral to a pediatric orthopedist if bowing of the legs interferes with walking  Management of frequent middle-ear infections  Speech evaluation by age two years  Careful monitoring of social adjustment The GeneReview article on achondroplasia also provides information on medical management.  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1152/#achondroplasia.Management
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Heart Attack ?
Answer: Angina is a recurring pain or discomfort in the chest that happens when some part of the heart does not receive enough blood. An episode of angina is not a heart attack. However, people with angina may have a hard time telling the difference between angina and heart attack symptoms. Angina is chest pain or discomfort that occurs when your heart muscle does not get enough blood. Angina may feel like pressure or a squeezing pain in your chest. The pain may also occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. It may also feel like indigestion. It is usually relieved within a few minutes by resting or by taking prescribed angina medicine.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for Autism ?
Answer: There is no cure for autism. Therapies and behavioral interventions are designed to remedy specific symptoms and can bring about substantial improvement. The ideal treatment plan coordinates therapies and interventions that meet the specific needs of individual children. Treatment options include educational/bahavioral interventions, medications, and other therapies. Most professionals agree that the earlier the intervention, the better.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Who is at risk for Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF)? ?
Answer: Ixodid (hard) ticks, especially those of the genus, Hyalomma, are both a reservoir and a vector for the CCHF virus. Numerous wild and domestic animals, such as cattle, goats, sheep and hares, serve as amplifying hosts for the virus. Transmission to humans occurs through contact with infected ticks or animal blood. CCHF can be transmitted from one infected human to another by contact with infectious blood or body fluids. Documented spread of CCHF has also occurred in hospitals due to improper sterilization of medical equipment, reuse of injection needles, and contamination of medical supplies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. NINDS-funded research includes studies to understand the genetic causes of ACC, as well as to understand how magnetic resonance imaging findings may help predict outcome and response to therapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) tyrosinemia ?
Answer: Tyrosinemia is a genetic disorder characterized by disruptions in the multistep process that breaks down the amino acid tyrosine, a building block of most proteins. If untreated, tyrosine and its byproducts build up in tissues and organs, which can lead to serious health problems.  There are three types of tyrosinemia, which are each distinguished by their symptoms and genetic cause. Tyrosinemia type I, the most severe form of this disorder, is characterized by signs and symptoms that begin in the first few months of life. Affected infants fail to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive) due to poor food tolerance because high-protein foods lead to diarrhea and vomiting. Affected infants may also have yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice), a cabbage-like odor, and an increased tendency to bleed (particularly nosebleeds). Tyrosinemia type I can lead to liver and kidney failure, softening and weakening of the bones (rickets), and an increased risk of liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma). Some affected children have repeated neurologic crises that consist of changes in mental state, reduced sensation in the arms and legs (peripheral neuropathy), abdominal pain, and respiratory failure. These crises can last from 1 to 7 days. Untreated, children with tyrosinemia type I often do not survive past the age of 10.  Tyrosinemia type II can affect the eyes, skin, and mental development. Signs and symptoms often begin in early childhood and include eye pain and redness, excessive tearing, abnormal sensitivity to light (photophobia), and thick, painful skin on the palms of their hands and soles of their feet (palmoplantar hyperkeratosis). About 50 percent of individuals with tyrosinemia type II have some degree of intellectual disability.  Tyrosinemia type III is the rarest of the three types. The characteristic features of this type include intellectual disability, seizures, and periodic loss of balance and coordination (intermittent ataxia).  About 10 percent of newborns have temporarily elevated levels of tyrosine (transient tyrosinemia). In these cases, the cause is not genetic. The most likely causes are vitamin C deficiency or immature liver enzymes due to premature birth.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Leukemia? ?
Answer: For the most part, no one knows why some people develop leukemia and others do not. Most people who have known risk factors do not get leukemia, while many who get the disease do not have any risk factors. Studies have identified the following risk factors for leukemia. - older age  -  male  - white  - working with certain chemicals  -  smoking  - exposure to very high levels of radiation  - certain health conditions  -  past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy.  older age male white working with certain chemicals smoking exposure to very high levels of radiation certain health conditions past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Stickler syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in several genes cause the different types of Stickler syndrome. Between 80 and 90 percent of all cases are classified as type I and are caused by mutations in the COL2A1 gene. Another 10 to 20 percent of cases are classified as type II and result from mutations in the COL11A1 gene. Marshall syndrome, which may be a variant of Stickler syndrome, is also caused by COL11A1 gene mutations. Stickler syndrome types III through VI result from mutations in other, related genes.  All of the genes associated with Stickler syndrome provide instructions for making components of collagens, which are complex molecules that give structure and strength to the connective tissues that support the body's joints and organs. Mutations in any of these genes impair the production, processing, or assembly of collagen molecules. Defective collagen molecules or reduced amounts of collagen impair the development of connective tissues in many different parts of the body, leading to the varied features of Stickler syndrome.  Not all individuals with Stickler syndrome have mutations in one of the known genes. Researchers believe that mutations in other genes may also cause this condition, but those genes have not been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Mental retardation X-linked syndromic 7 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mental retardation X-linked syndromic 7? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mental retardation X-linked syndromic 7. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Obesity 90% Tapered finger 90% Abnormal hair quantity 50% Abnormality of dental morphology 50% Hypoplasia of penis 50% Muscle weakness 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Short stature 50% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Visual impairment 7.5% Intellectual disability - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Wyburn Mason's syndrome ?
Answer: Wyburn Mason's syndrome is a condition in which blood vessels do not form correctly in both the retina of one eye and a part of the brain.  These malformed blood vessels are called arteriovenous malformations (AVM).  Wyburn Mason's syndrome is present from birth (congenital) and the cause is unknown.  Individuals with this condition may have additional AVMs in other parts of the body, particularly the face.  The symptoms of this condition are quite variable and depend on the size, location, and shape of the AVMs.  Affected individuals may have no symptoms or may experience headaches, problems with vision, seizures, or partial paralysis (hemiparesis).  Treatment usually consists of periodic visits to the doctor to see if the AVMs are changing over time.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Bloom syndrome ?
Answer: Bloom syndrome is a rare disorder. Only a few hundred affected individuals have been described in the medical literature, about one-third of whom are of Central and Eastern European (Ashkenazi) Jewish background.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose EEC syndrome ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for EEC syndrome? It is estimated that greater than 90% of cases of EEC syndrome are caused by mutations in the TP63 gene. The remainder are suspected to be caused by different mutations in a region on chromosome 7. Genetic testing is available to detect both mutations in the TP63 gene and in the implicated region on chromosome 7.  Genetic Testing Registry lists the names of laboratories that are performing genetic testing for EEC syndrome. To view the contact information for the clinical laboratories conducting testing click here. Testing for individuals with a family history of EEC syndrome who may have a mutation but do not exhibit signs and symptoms of the condition may be available if the mutation in the affected family member(s) is known. Prenatal diagnosis for pregnancies at risk may also be available if the mutation in the family is known. Please note that most of the laboratories listed through GeneTests do not accept direct contact from patients and their families; therefore, if you are interested in learning more, you will need to work with a health care provider or a genetics professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Leukemia ?
Answer: Acute leukemia gets worse quickly. In chronic leukemia, symptoms develop gradually and are generally not as severe as in acute leukemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Ectopic Pregnancy ?
Answer: The uterus, or womb, is the place where a baby grows when a woman is pregnant. If you have an ectopic pregnancy, the fertilized egg grows in the wrong place, outside the uterus, usually in the fallopian tubes. The result is usually a miscarriage.    Ectopic pregnancy can be a medical emergency if it ruptures. Signs of ectopic pregnancy include       - Abdominal pain    - Shoulder pain    - Vaginal bleeding    - Feeling dizzy or faint       Get medical care right away if you have these signs. Doctors use drugs or surgery to remove the ectopic tissue so it doesn't damage your organs. Many women who have had ectopic pregnancies go on to have healthy pregnancies later.    Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) achromatopsia ?
Answer: Achromatopsia is a condition characterized by a partial or total absence of color vision. People with complete achromatopsia cannot perceive any colors; they see only black, white, and shades of gray. Incomplete achromatopsia is a milder form of the condition that allows some color discrimination.  Achromatopsia also involves other problems with vision, including an increased sensitivity to light and glare (photophobia), involuntary back-and-forth eye movements (nystagmus), and significantly reduced sharpness of vision (low visual acuity). Affected individuals can also have farsightedness (hyperopia) or, less commonly, nearsightedness (myopia). These vision problems develop in the first few months of life.  Achromatopsia is different from the more common forms of color vision deficiency (also called color blindness), in which people can perceive color but have difficulty distinguishing between certain colors, such as red and green.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Shingles? ?
Answer: The leading risk factor for shingles is a history of having had chickenpox. One out of every five people who have had chickenpox is likely to get shingles. Another risk factor is aging. As we age, our natural immunity gradually loses its ability to protect against infection. The shingles virus can take advantage of this and become active again. Conditions that weaken the immune system can also put people at risk for shingles. Shingles is especially dangerous for anyone who has had cancer, radiation treatments for cancer, HIV/AIDS, or a transplant operation. Our immune system gradually loses strength as we mature. After people reach 50, the body is not able to fight off infections as easily as it once did.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the complications of Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?
Answer: The complications of childhood nephrotic syndrome may include
                
- infection. When the kidneys are damaged, a child is more likely to develop infections because the body loses proteins that normally protect against infection. Health care providers will prescribe medications to treat infections. Children with childhood nephrotic syndrome should receive the pneumococcal vaccine and yearly flu shots to prevent those infections. Children should also receive age-appropriate vaccinations, although a health care provider may delay certain live vaccines while a child is taking certain medications.  - blood clots. Blood clots can block the flow of blood and oxygen through a blood vessel anywhere in the body. A child is more likely to develop clots when he or she loses proteins through the urine. The health care provider will treat blood clots with blood-thinning medications.  - high blood cholesterol. When albumin leaks into the urine, the albumin levels in the blood drop. The liver makes more albumin to make up for the low levels in the blood. At the same time, the liver makes more cholesterol. Sometimes children may need treatment with medications to lower blood cholesterol levels.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1 aplasia cutis congenita ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1 aplasia cutis congenita? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1 aplasia cutis congenita. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Skull defect 3/3 Aplasia cutis congenita of scalp - Motor axonal neuropathy - Sensory axonal neuropathy - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Heart Failure ?
Answer: Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. In some cases, the heart can't fill with enough blood. In other cases, the heart can't pump blood to the rest of the body with enough force. Some people have both problems.
                
The term "heart failure" doesn't mean that your heart has stopped or is about to stop working. However, heart failure is a serious condition that requires medical care.
                
Overview
                
Heart failure develops over time as the heart's pumping action grows weaker. The condition can affect the right side of the heart only, or it can affect both sides of the heart. Most cases involve both sides of the heart.
                
Right-side heart failure occurs if the heart can't pump enough blood to the lungs to pick up oxygen. Left-side heart failure occurs if the heart can't pump enough oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body.
                
Right-side heart failure may cause fluid to build up in the feet, ankles, legs, liver, abdomen, and the veins in the neck. Right-side and left-side heart failure also may cause shortness of breath and fatigue (tiredness).
                
The leading causes of heart failure are diseases that damage the heart. Examples include coronary heart disease (CHD), high blood pressure, and diabetes.
                
Outlook
                
Heart failure is a very common condition. About 5.7 million people in the United States have heart failure.Both children and adults can have the condition, although the symptoms and treatments differ. The Health Topicfocuses on heart failure in adults.
                
Currently, heart failure has no cure. However, treatmentssuch as medicines and lifestyle changescan help people who have the condition live longer and more active lives. Researchers continue to study new ways to treat heart failure and its complications.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the stages of Oropharyngeal Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - After oropharyngeal cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the oropharynx or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for oropharyngeal cancer:         - Stage 0 (Carcinoma in Situ)     - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After oropharyngeal cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the oropharynx or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the oropharynx or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. The results of some of the tests used to diagnose oropharyngeal cancer are often used to stage the disease.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if oropharyngeal cancer spreads to the lung, the cancer cells in the lung are actually oropharyngeal cancer cells. The disease is metastatic oropharyngeal cancer, not lung cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for oropharyngeal cancer:
                    Stage 0 (Carcinoma in Situ)    In stage 0, abnormal cells are found in the lining of the oropharynx. These abnormal cells may become cancer and spread into nearby normal tissue. Stage 0 is also called carcinoma in situ.        Stage I    In stage I, cancer has formed and is 2 centimeters or smaller and is found in the oropharynx only.       Stage II    In stage II, the cancer is larger than 2 centimeters but not larger than 4 centimeters and is found in the oropharynx only.        Stage III    In stage III, the cancer is either:            - 4 centimeters or smaller; cancer has spread to one lymph node on the same side of the neck as the tumor and the lymph node is 3 centimeters or smaller; or     - larger than 4 centimeters or has spread to the epiglottis (the flap that covers the trachea during swallowing). Cancer may have spread to one lymph node on the same side of the neck as the tumor and the lymph node is 3 centimeters or smaller.              Stage IV     Stage IV is divided into stage IVA, IVB, and IVC:            - In stage IVA, cancer:                  - has spread to the larynx, front part of the roof of the mouth, lower jaw, or muscles that move the tongue or are used for chewing. Cancer may have spread to one lymph node on the same side of the neck as the tumor and the lymph node is 3 centimeters or smaller; or       - has spread to one lymph node on the same side of the neck as the tumor (the lymph node is larger than 3 centimeters but not larger than 6 centimeters) or to more than one lymph node anywhere in the neck (the lymph nodes are 6 centimeters or smaller), and one of the following is true:                           - tumor in the oropharynx is any size and may have spread to the epiglottis (the flap that covers the trachea during swallowing); or          -  tumor has spread to the larynx, front part of the roof of the mouth, lower jaw, or muscles that move the tongue or are used for chewing.                                 - In stage IVB, the tumor:                  - surrounds the carotid artery or has spread to the muscle that opens the jaw, the bone attached to the muscles that move the jaw, nasopharynx, or base of the skull. Cancer may have spread to one or more lymph nodes which can be any size; or       - may be any size and has spread to one or more lymph nodes that are larger than 6 centimeters.                - In stage IVC, the tumor may be any size and has spread beyond the oropharynx to other parts of the body, such as the lung, bone, or liver.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis Vaccines ?
Answer: Tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough) are serious bacterial infections. Tetanus causes painful tightening of the muscles, usually all over the body. It can lead to "locking" of the jaw. Diphtheria usually affects the nose and throat. Whooping cough causes uncontrollable coughing. Vaccines can protect you from these diseases. In the U.S., there are four combination vaccines:       - DTaP prevents all three diseases. It is for children younger than seven years old.    - Tdap also prevents all three. It is for older children and adults.    - DT prevents diphtheria and tetanus. It is for children younger than seven who cannot tolerate the pertussis vaccine.    - Td prevents diphtheria and tetanus. It is for older children and adults. It is usually given as a booster dose every 10 years. You may also get it earlier if you get a severe and dirty wound or burn.       Some people should not get these vaccines, including those who have had severe reactions to the shots before. Check with your doctor first if you have seizures, a neurologic problem, or Guillain-Barre syndrome. Also let your doctor know if you don't feel well the day of the shot; you may need to postpone it.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Congenital contractural arachnodactyly ?
Answer: Congenital contractural arachnodactyly (CCA) is a genetic disorder that is typically characterized by tall height; skinny, long limbs; long, skinny fingers and toes (arachnodactyly); multiple joint deformities present at birth (congenital contractures), usually of the elbows, knees, hips, fingers and ankles; "crumpled"-looking ears, and curvature of the spine (kyphoscoliosis). Other features might also be present and vary from person to person. CCA is caused by mutations in a gene called FBN2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. CCA shares similiar signs and symptoms to Marfan syndrome; however, Marfan syndrome is not caused by mutations in the FBN2 gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Cataract Hutterite type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Cataract Hutterite type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cataract Hutterite type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital cataract - Juvenile cataract - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to renal tubular dysgenesis ?
Answer: Mutations in the ACE, AGT, AGTR1, or REN gene can cause renal tubular dysgenesis. These genes are involved in the renin-angiotensin system, which regulates blood pressure and the balance of fluids and salts in the body and plays a role in kidney development before birth.  The renin-angiotensin system consists of several proteins that are involved in a series of steps to produce a protein called angiotensin II. In the first step, the renin protein (produced from the REN gene) converts a protein called angiotensinogen (produced from the AGT gene) to angiotensin I. In the next step, angiotensin-converting enzyme (produced from the ACE gene) converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II. Angiotensin II attaches (binds) to the angiotensin II receptor type 1 (AT1 receptor; produced from the AGTR1 gene), stimulating chemical signaling.  By binding to the AT1 receptor, angiotensin II causes blood vessels to narrow (constrict), which results in increased blood pressure. This protein also stimulates production of the hormone aldosterone, which triggers the absorption of salt and water by the kidneys. The increased amount of fluid in the body also increases blood pressure. Proper blood pressure, which delivers oxygen to the developing tissues during fetal growth, is required for normal development of the kidneys (particularly of the proximal tubules) and other tissues.  Mutations in the ACE, AGT, AGTR1, or REN gene impair the production or function of angiotensin II, leading to a nonfunctional renin-angiotensin system. Without this system, the kidneys cannot control blood pressure. Because of low blood pressure, the flow of blood is reduced (hypoperfusion), and the fetal tissues do not get enough oxygen during development. As a result, kidney development is impaired, leading to the features of renal tubular dysgenesis. Hypoperfusion also causes the skull abnormalities found in individuals with this condition.  Medications that block the activity of the angiotensin-converting enzyme or the AT1 receptor are used to treat high blood pressure. Because these drugs impair the renin-angiotensin system, they can cause an acquired (non-inherited) form of renal tubular dysgenesis in fetuses of pregnant women who take them. Acquired renal tubular dysgenesis can also result from other conditions that cause renal hypoperfusion during fetal development. These include heart problems, congenital hemochromatosis, and a complication that can occur in twin pregnancies called twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Chromosome 6q deletion ?
Answer: Chromosome 6q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 6. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 6q deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, and distinctive facial features. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Mosaic trisomy 14 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mosaic trisomy 14? The effects of mosaic trisomy 14 can vary considerably among affected individuals. Some children with mosaic trisomy 14 grow into healthy, if small, children. Others may have continued difficulty thriving. Those that have a low percentage of affected cells may have fewer and/or less severe symptoms than those with a high percentage of affected cells. Some of the more commonly reported characteristics of the condition include: intrauterine growth restriction feeding difficulties failure to thrive some degree of developmental delay or intellectual disability slightly asymmetrical growth abnormal skin pigmentation structural defect(s) of the heart such as tetralogy of Fallot minor genital abnormalities in boys such as undescended testes distinctive facial characteristics such as a prominent forehead; widely spaced eyes; a broad nasal bridge; low-set, malformed ears; a small lower jaw; a large mouth and thick lips; eye abnormalities; or abnormality of the roof of the mouth (palate) Skeletal abnormalities have also been reported and include dislocation of the hips; overlapping of certain fingers or toes; and/or other features. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mosaic trisomy 14. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of chromosome segregation 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Frontal bossing 90% Prominent nasal bridge 90% Short neck 90% Short stature 90% Wide mouth 90% Anteverted nares 50% Blepharophimosis 50% Cleft palate 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Ectopic anus 50% Hypertelorism 50% Hypoplasia of penis 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Narrow chest 50% Seizures 50% Single transverse palmar crease 50% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Lower limb asymmetry 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the stages of Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - After adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the lymph system or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Stages of adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma may include E and S.    - The following stages are used for adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma:         - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV        - Adult non-Hodgkin lymphomas may be grouped for treatment according to whether the cancer is indolent or aggressive and whether affected lymph nodes are next to each other in the body.
                
                
                    After adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the lymph system or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out the type of cancer and if cancer cells have spread within the lymph system or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage of the disease in order to plan treatment. The results of the tests and procedures done to diagnose non-Hodgkin lymphoma are used to help make decisions about treatment.   The following tests and procedures may also be used in the staging process:         -   Complete blood count (CBC) with differential : A procedure in which a sample of blood is drawn and checked for the following:               -  The number of red blood cells and platelets.      - The number and type of white blood cells.      - The amount of hemoglobin (the protein that carries oxygen) in the red blood cells.      - The portion of the blood sample made up of red blood cells.              -   Blood chemistry studies : A procedure in which a blood sample is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances released into the blood by organs and tissues in the body. An unusual (higher or lower than normal) amount of a substance can be a sign of disease.    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the lung, lymph nodes, and liver, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.     -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).     -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow and a small piece of bone by inserting a needle into the hipbone or breastbone. A pathologist views the bone marrow and bone under a microscope to look for signs of cancer.    -   Lumbar puncture : A procedure used to collect cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the spinal column. This is done by placing a needle between two bones in the spine and into the CSF around the spinal cord and removing a sample of the fluid. The sample of CSF is checked under a microscope for signs that the cancer has spread to the brain and spinal cord. This procedure is also called an LP or spinal tap.         For pregnant women with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, staging tests and procedures that protect the baby from the harms of radiation are used. These tests and procedures include MRI, bone marrow aspiration and biopsy, lumbar puncture, and ultrasound. An ultrasound exam is a procedure in which high-energy sound waves (ultrasound) are bounced off internal tissues or organs and make echoes. The echoes form a picture of body tissues called a sonogram.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Stages of adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma may include E and S.
                    Adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma may be described as follows:         - E: "E" stands for extranodal and means the cancer is found in an area or organ other than the lymph nodes or has spread to tissues beyond, but near, the major lymphatic areas.    - S: "S" stands for spleen and means the cancer is found in the spleen.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma:
                    Stage I      Stage I adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma is divided into stage I and stage IE.            -  Stage I: Cancer is found in one lymphatic area (lymph node group, tonsils and nearby tissue, thymus, or spleen).     -  Stage IE: Cancer is found in one organ or area outside the lymph nodes.              Stage II     Stage II adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma is divided into stage II and stage IIE.            -  Stage II: Cancer is found in two or more lymph node groups either above or below the diaphragm (the thin muscle below the lungs that helps breathing and separates the chest from the abdomen).     -  Stage IIE: Cancer is found in one or more lymph node groups either above or below the diaphragm. Cancer is also found outside the lymph nodes in one organ or area on the same side of the diaphragm as the affected lymph nodes.              Stage III      Stage III adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma is divided into stage III, stage IIIE, stage IIIS, and stage IIIE+S.            -  Stage III: Cancer is found in lymph node groups above and below the diaphragm (the thin muscle below the lungs that helps breathing and separates the chest from the abdomen).     -  Stage IIIE: Cancer is found in lymph node groups above and below the diaphragm and outside the lymph nodes in a nearby organ or area.     -  Stage IIIS: Cancer is found in lymph node groups above and below the diaphragm, and in the spleen.     -  Stage IIIE+S: Cancer is found in lymph node groups above and below the diaphragm, outside the lymph nodes in a nearby organ or area, and in the spleen.              Stage IV     In stage IV adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma, the cancer:             - is found throughout one or more organs that are not part of a lymphatic area (lymph node group, tonsils and nearby tissue, thymus, or spleen), and may be in lymph nodes near those organs; or     - is found in one organ that is not part of a lymphatic area and has spread to organs or lymph nodes far away from that organ; or     - is found in the liver, bone marrow, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), or lungs (other than cancer that has spread to the lungs from nearby areas).
                
                
                    Adult non-Hodgkin lymphomas may be grouped for treatment according to whether the cancer is indolent or aggressive and whether affected lymph nodes are next to each other in the body.
                    See the General Information section for more information on the types of indolent (slow-growing) and aggressive (fast-growing) non-Hodgkin lymphoma.   Non-Hodgkin lymphoma can also be described as contiguous or noncontiguous:         -  Contiguous lymphomas: Lymphomas in which the lymph nodes with cancer are next to each other.    -  Noncontiguous lymphomas: Lymphomas in which the lymph nodes with cancer are not next to each other, but are on the same side of the diaphragm.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Larsen syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Larsen syndrome? The signs and symptoms of Larsen syndrome vary from person to person, but may include the following: Joint dislocation (especially of the hips, knees, and elbows) Hypermobile joints Flat, rectangular face Depressed nasal bridge Prominent forehead Widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism) 'Spatula-like' thumbs Long fingers with broad ends and short nails Short arms Cleft palate Clubfoot Curved spine Short stature Breathing problems in infancy (due to soft cartilage in the airway) Cardiovascular (heart) anomalies The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Larsen syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of thumb phalanx 90% Anonychia 90% Arachnodactyly 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Frontal bossing 90% Hypertelorism 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Malar flattening 90% Abnormality of the wrist 50% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 7.5% Abnormality of the cardiovascular system 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Conductive hearing impairment 7.5% Craniosynostosis 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Laryngomalacia 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Vertebral segmentation defect 7.5% Accessory carpal bones - Aortic dilatation - Atria septal defect - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Beaking of vertebral bodies - Bipartite calcaneus - Bronchomalacia - Cervical kyphosis - Cleft upper lip - Corneal opacity - Dislocated wrist - Elbow dislocation - Flat face - Hip dislocation - Hypodontia - Hypoplastic cervical vertebrae - Intellectual disability - Intrauterine growth retardation - Joint laxity - Knee dislocation - Multiple carpal ossification centers - Pectus carinatum - Pectus excavatum - Prominent forehead - Shallow orbits - Short metacarpal - Short metatarsal - Short nail - Spatulate thumbs - Spina bifida occulta - Spinal cord compression - Spondylolysis - Talipes equinovalgus - Talipes equinovarus - Tracheal stenosis - Tracheomalacia - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Kidney Failure: Choosing a Treatment That's Right for You ?
Answer: Chronic kidney disease means you have damaged kidneys that cannot filter blood normally. Wastes then build up in your blood, harming your body. Kidney disease usually does not get better and may lead to kidney failure. If your kidneys fail, current treatment options can help you live a longer, healthier life. Some people live with kidney disease for years without needing treatment. Others progress quickly to kidney failure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Vulvar Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Fanconi renotubular syndrome ?
Answer: Fanconi syndrome is a condition in which the kidneys do not absorb certain substances into the body.  These substances, such as cysteine, fructose, galactose, or glycogen, are lost in the urine.  Fanconi syndrome is thought to be caused by genetic and environmental factors, and it may be diagnosed at any age.  Symptoms of Fanconi syndrome include increased urine production (which may cause dehydration), weakness, and abnormalities of the bones.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
				                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Monoclonal antibody therapy is one type of targeted therapy being studied in the treatment of adult AML.    Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells.
				                
				                
				                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
				                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
				                
				                
				                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
				                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: Do you have information about Cold and Cough Medicines
Answer: Summary : Sneezing, sore throat, a stuffy nose, coughing -- everyone knows the symptoms of the common cold. It is probably the most common illness. In the course of a year, people in the United States suffer 1 billion colds.     What can you do for your cold or cough symptoms? Besides drinking plenty of fluids and getting plenty of rest, you may want to take medicines. There are lots of different cold and cough medicines, and they do different things.       - Nasal decongestants - unclog a stuffy nose    - Cough suppressants - quiet a cough    - Expectorants - loosen mucus so you can cough it up     - Antihistamines - stop runny noses and sneezing    - Pain relievers - ease fever, headaches, and minor aches and pains       Here are some other things to keep in mind about cold and cough medicines. Read labels, because many cold and cough medicines contain the same active ingredients. Taking too much of certain pain relievers can lead to serious injury. Do not give cough medicines to children under four, and don't give aspirin to children. Finally, antibiotics won't help a cold.    Food and Drug Administration
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of VLCAD deficiency ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of VLCAD deficiency? There are three forms of VLCAD deficiency: a severe, early-onset form; a hepatic (liver) or hypoketotic hypoglycemic form; and a later-onset episodic myopathic form. Signs and symptoms of the severe, early-onset form occur in the first few months of life and include cardiomyopathy (heart disease), pericardial effusion (fluid around the heart), heart arrhythmias (abnormal heart beat), low muscle tone, enlarged liver, and intermittent hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). The heart problems can be life threatening, but are often improved with early treatment and diet modifications. People affected by the hepatic or hypoketotic hypoglycemic form typically develop symptoms during early childhood. These features may include hypoketotic hypoglycemia and enlarged liver (without cardiomyopathy). "Hypoketotic" refers to a low level of ketones, which are produced during the breakdown of fats and used for energy. Hypoglycemia refers to low blood sugar. Together, these signs are called "hypoketotic hypoglycemia." The episodes of hypoglycemia seen in the early-onset form and hepatic/hypoketotic hypoglycemia form can cause a child to feel weak, shaky and/or dizzy with clammy, cold skin. If not treated, it can lead to coma, and possibly death. Periods of hypoglycemia can also occur with other symptoms as part of a metabolic crisis. Signs and symptoms of the later-onset episodic myopathic form may include intermittent rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of muscle), muscle cramps, muscle pain, and exercise intolerance. It is the most common form of VLCAD deficiency.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is glycogen storage disease type VII inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Skin Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Treatment for skin cancer may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects caused by treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI Web site.     Fulguration     Fulguration is a surgical procedure that destroys tissue using an electric current. A tool with a small wire loop on the end is used to remove the cancer or to burn away the tumor with electricity.       Segmental resection of the renal pelvis    This is a surgical procedure to remove localized cancer from the renal pelvis without removing the entire kidney. Segmental resection may be done to save kidney function when the other kidney is damaged or has already been removed.        Laser surgery    A laser beam (narrow beam of intense light) is used as a knife to remove the cancer. A laser beam can also be used to kill the cancer cells. This procedure may also be called or laser fulguration.       Regional chemotherapy and regional biologic therapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing. Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer; substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. Regional treatment means the anticancer drugs or biologic substances are placed directly into an organ or a body cavity such as the abdomen, so the drugs will affect cancer cells in that area. Clinical trials are studying chemotherapy or biologic therapy using drugs placed directly into the renal pelvis or the ureter.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) vitiligo ?
Answer: Vitiligo is a condition that causes patchy loss of skin coloring (pigmentation). The average age of onset of vitiligo is in the mid-twenties, but it can appear at any age. It tends to progress over time, with larger areas of the skin losing pigment. Some people with vitiligo also have patches of pigment loss affecting the hair on their scalp or body.  Researchers have identified several forms of vitiligo. Generalized vitiligo (also called nonsegmental vitiligo), which is the most common form, involves loss of pigment (depigmentation) in patches of skin all over the body. Depigmentation typically occurs on the face, neck, and scalp, and around body openings such as the mouth and genitals. Sometimes pigment is lost in mucous membranes, such as the lips. Loss of pigmentation is also frequently seen in areas that tend to experience rubbing, impact, or other trauma, such as the hands, arms, and places where bones are close to the skin surface (bony prominences). Another form called segmental vitiligo is associated with smaller patches of depigmented skin that appear on one side of the body in a limited area; this occurs in about 10 percent of affected individuals.  Vitiligo is generally considered to be an autoimmune disorder. Autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system attacks the body's own tissues and organs. In people with vitiligo the immune system appears to attack the pigment cells (melanocytes) in the skin. About 15 to 25 percent of people with vitiligo are also affected by at least one other autoimmune disorder, particularly autoimmune thyroid disease, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, psoriasis, pernicious anemia, Addison disease, or systemic lupus erythematosus.  In the absence of other autoimmune conditions, vitiligo does not affect general health or physical functioning. However, concerns about appearance and ethnic identity are significant issues for many affected individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Primary Biliary Cirrhosis ?
Answer: - Primary biliary cirrhosis is a chronic disease that causes the small bile ducts in the liver to become inflamed and damaged and ultimately disappear.  - When chronic inflammation damages the bile ducts, bile and toxic wastes build up in the liver, damaging liver tissue. This damage to the liver tissue can lead to cirrhosis.  - The causes of primary biliary cirrhosis are unknown. Most research suggests it is an autoimmune disease.  - Primary biliary cirrhosis is more common in people who have a parent or siblingparticularly an identical twinwith the disease.  - The first and most common symptoms of primary biliary cirrhosis are fatigue, itching, and dry eyes and mouth. Some people may have jaundice, a condition that causes the skin and whites of the eyes to turn yellow. Health care providers diagnose up to 60 percent of people with primary biliary cirrhosis before symptoms begin.  - Most complications of primary biliary cirrhosis are related to cirrhosis and start after primary biliary cirrhosis progresses to cirrhosis.  - A health care provider may use the following tests to diagnose primary biliary cirrhosis:      - a medical and family history    - a physical exam    - blood tests    - imaging tests    - a liver biopsy    - Health care providers prescribe ursodiol (Actigall, Urso) to treat primary biliary cirrhosis. Early treatment with this medication reduces the likelihood of needing a liver transplant and improves survival.  - A health care provider may consider a liver transplant when cirrhosis leads to liver failure or treatment for complications is ineffective.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 7 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Pulmonic stenosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pulmonic stenosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pulmonic stenosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the pulmonary artery 90% Atria septal defect 50% Pulmonic stenosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Skin Cancer ?
Answer: Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. The two most common types are basal cell cancer and squamous cell cancer. They usually form on the head, face, neck, hands, and arms. Another type of skin cancer, melanoma, is more dangerous but less common.     Anyone can get skin cancer, but it is more common in people who        -  Spend a lot of time in the sun or have been sunburned    -  Have light-colored skin, hair and eyes    -  Have a family member with skin cancer    -  Are over age 50       You should have your doctor check any suspicious skin markings and any changes in the way your skin looks. Treatment is more likely to work well when cancer is found early. If not treated, some types of skin cancer cells can spread to other tissues and organs. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, photodynamic therapy (PDT), and biologic therapy. PDT uses a drug and a type of laser light to kill cancer cells. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer.    NIH: National Cancer Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hypotonia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on conditions that can result from neurological disorders, such as hypotonia. Much of this research is aimed at learning more about these conditions and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is the outlook for Childhood Central Nervous System Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor ?
Answer: Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:         - Whether there are certain inherited gene changes.    - The age of the child.    - The amount of tumor remaining after surgery.    - Whether the cancer has spread to other parts of the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) or to the kidney at the time of diagnosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for Esthesioneuroblastoma ?
Answer: How is esthesioneuroblastoma usually treated? Various treatment regimens for esthesioneuroblastoma have been used through the years. Early treatment included using either surgery or radiation therapy, but, for the most part, these regimens resulted in high rates of recurrence. Subsequently, multimodality therapy with surgery and radiation therapy has been more frequently administered, and some institutions recommend trimodality therapy, with the addition of chemotherapy to surgery and radiation therapy. Most patients are initially treated with surgical removal if possible. Radiation therapy is most commonly administered after surgical removal of the tumor. The role of chemotherapy for esthesioneuroblastoma remains poorly defined. Many institutions incorporate chemotherapy into the treatment regimen, especially for stage C disease, whereas others have not noted any substantial clinical response to chemotherapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is MyD88 deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) multicentric osteolysis, nodulosis, and arthropathy ?
Answer: Multicentric osteolysis, nodulosis, and arthropathy (MONA) describes a rare inherited disease characterized by a loss of bone tissue (osteolysis), particularly in the hands and feet. MONA includes a condition formerly called nodulosis-arthropathy-osteolysis (NAO) syndrome. It may also include a similar disorder called Torg syndrome, although it is unknown whether Torg syndrome is actually part of MONA or a separate disorder caused by a mutation in a different gene.  In most cases of MONA, bone loss begins in the hands and feet, causing pain and limiting movement. Bone abnormalities can later spread to other areas of the body, with joint problems (arthropathy) occurring in the elbows, shoulders, knees, hips, and spine. Most people with MONA develop low bone mineral density (osteopenia) and thinning of the bones (osteoporosis) throughout the skeleton. These abnormalities make bones brittle and more prone to fracture. The bone abnormalities also lead to short stature.  Many affected individuals develop subcutaneous nodules, which are firm lumps of noncancerous tissue underneath the skin, especially on the soles of the feet. Some affected individuals also have skin abnormalities including patches of dark, thick, and leathery skin. Other features of MONA can include clouding of the clear front covering of the eye (corneal opacity), excess hair growth (hypertrichosis), overgrowth of the gums, heart abnormalities, and distinctive facial features that are described as "coarse."
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Marden-Walker syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Marden-Walker syndrome inherited? Marden-Walker syndrome is thought to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner since cases of affected siblings and parental consanguinity (the parents of the child with the condition are related to each other) have been reported.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Andersen-Tawil syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the KCNJ2 gene cause Andersen-Tawil syndrome.  The KCNJ2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that forms a channel across cell membranes. This channel transports positively charged atoms (ions) of potassium into muscle cells. The movement of potassium ions through these channels is critical for maintaining the normal functions of muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles) and cardiac muscle. Mutations in the KCNJ2 gene alter the usual structure and function of potassium channels or prevent the channels from being inserted correctly into the cell membrane. Many mutations prevent a molecule called PIP2 from binding to the channels and effectively regulating their activity. These changes disrupt the flow of potassium ions in skeletal and cardiac muscle, leading to the periodic paralysis and irregular heart rhythm characteristic of Andersen-Tawil syndrome.  Researchers have not determined the role of the KCNJ2 gene in bone development, and it is not known how mutations in the gene lead to the developmental abnormalities often found in Andersen-Tawil syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies ?
Answer: FENIB results from mutations in the SERPINI1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called neuroserpin, which is found in nerve cells (neurons). Neuroserpin plays a role in the development and function of the nervous system. This protein helps control the growth of neurons and their connections with one another, which suggests that it may be important for learning and memory.  Mutations in the SERPINI1 gene result in the production of an abnormally shaped, unstable form of neuroserpin. Within neurons, defective neuroserpin proteins can attach to one another and form clumps called neuroserpin inclusion bodies or Collins bodies. These clumps disrupt the cells' normal functioning and ultimately lead to cell death. The gradual loss of neurons in certain parts of the brain causes progressive dementia. Researchers believe that a buildup of related, potentially toxic substances in neurons may also contribute to the signs and symptoms of this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Imerslund-Grsbeck syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the AMN or CUBN gene can cause Imerslund-Grsbeck syndrome. The AMN gene provides instructions for making a protein called amnionless, and the CUBN gene provides instructions for making a protein called cubilin. Together, these proteins play a role in the uptake of vitamin B12 from food. Vitamin B12, which cannot be made in the body and can only be obtained from food, is essential for the formation of DNA and proteins, the production of cellular energy, and the breakdown of fats. This vitamin is involved in the formation of red blood cells and maintenance of the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system).  The amnionless protein is embedded primarily in the membrane of kidney cells and cells that line the small intestine. Amnionless attaches (binds) to cubilin, anchoring cubilin to the cell membrane. Cubilin can interact with molecules and proteins passing through the intestine or kidneys. During digestion, vitamin B12 is released from food. As the vitamin passes through the small intestine, cubilin binds to it. Amnionless helps transfer the cubilin-vitamin B12 complex into the intestinal cell. From there, the vitamin is released into the blood and transported throughout the body. In the kidney, the amnionless and cubilin proteins are involved in the reabsorption of certain proteins that would otherwise be released in urine.  Mutations in the AMN gene prevent cubilin from attaching to the cells in the small intestine and kidneys. Without cubilin function in the small intestine, vitamin B12 is not taken into the body. A shortage of this essential vitamin impairs the proper development of red blood cells, leading to megaloblastic anemia. Low levels of vitamin B12 can also affect the central nervous system, causing neurological problems. In addition, without cubilin function in the kidneys, proteins are not reabsorbed and are instead released in urine, leading to proteinuria.  Like AMN gene mutations, some CUBN gene mutations impair cubilin's function in both the small intestine and the kidneys, leading to a shortage of vitamin B12 and proteinuria. Other CUBN gene mutations affect cubilin's function only in the small intestine, impairing uptake of vitamin B12 into the intestinal cells. Individuals with these mutations have a shortage of vitamin B12, which can lead to megaloblastic anemia and neurological problems, but not proteinuria.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Snyder-Robinson syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Snyder-Robinson syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Snyder-Robinson syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the pinna - Bifid uvula - Broad-based gait - Cleft palate - Cryptorchidism - Decreased muscle mass - Dental crowding - Dysarthria - Facial asymmetry - High, narrow palate - Hyperextensibility of the finger joints - Hypertelorism - Intellectual disability - Kyphoscoliosis - Long fingers - Long hallux - Long palm - Mandibular prognathia - Muscular hypotonia - Narrow palm - Nasal speech - Osteoporosis - Pectus carinatum - Pectus excavatum - Phenotypic variability - Recurrent fractures - Seizures - Severe Myopia - Short philtrum - Short stature - Talipes equinovarus - Tall stature - Thick lower lip vermilion - Webbed neck - Wide intermamillary distance - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is familial Mediterranean fever inherited ?
Answer: Familial Mediterranean fever is almost always inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the MEFV gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In rare cases, this condition appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. An autosomal dominant inheritance pattern describes cases in which one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In autosomal dominant inheritance, affected individuals often inherit the mutation from one affected parent.  However, another mechanism is believed to account for some cases of familial Mediterranean fever that were originally thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. A gene mutation that occurs frequently in a population may result in a disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance appearing in multiple generations in a family, a pattern that mimics autosomal dominant inheritance. If one parent has familial Mediterranean fever (with mutations in both copies of the MEFV gene in each cell) and the other parent is an unaffected carrier (with a mutation in one copy of the MEFV gene in each cell), it may appear as if the affected child inherited the disorder only from the affected parent. This appearance of autosomal dominant inheritance when the pattern is actually autosomal recessive is called pseudodominance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by gastrointestinal stromal tumor ?
Answer: Approximately 5,000 new cases of GIST are diagnosed in the United States each year. However, GISTs may be more common than this estimate because small tumors may remain undiagnosed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Yemenite deaf-blind hypopigmentation syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Yemenite deaf-blind hypopigmentation syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Yemenite deaf-blind hypopigmentation syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cafe-au-lait spot 90% Delayed eruption of teeth 90% Freckling 90% Hypopigmented skin patches 90% Irregular hyperpigmentation 90% Macrodontia 90% Nystagmus 90% Strabismus 90% Anterior chamber synechiae 50% Gait disturbance 50% High forehead 50% Iris coloboma 50% Microcornea 50% Ocular albinism 50% Short philtrum 50% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% Blepharophimosis 7.5% Hypermetropia 7.5% Hypertonia 7.5% Taurodontia 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Chorioretinal coloboma - Numerous pigmented freckles - Patchy hypo- and hyperpigmentation - Severe sensorineural hearing impairment - White forelock - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Buschke Ollendorff syndrome ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for Buschke Ollendorff syndrome? Yes. GeneTests lists the names of laboratories that are performing genetic testing for Buschke Ollendorff syndrome. To view the contact information for the clinical laboratories conducting testing, click here. Please note: Most of the laboratories listed through GeneTests do not accept direct contact from patients and their families; therefore, if you are interested in learning more, you will need to work with a health care provider or a genetics professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Neuroblastoma ?
Answer: Neuroblastoma is a tumor that develops from a nerve in a child, usually before the age of 5.  It occurs in the abdomen near the adrenal glands, but it can also occur in other parts of the body.  It is considered an aggressive tumor because it often spreads to other parts of the body (metastasizes).  The symptoms of a neuroblastoma may include a lump in the abdomen, pain, diarrhea, or generally feeling unwell.  It affects one out of 100,000 children.  The exact cause of this tumor is not yet known.  Neuroblastoma may be diagnosed by physical examination; specific blood tests; imaging tests such as x-rays, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or computed tomography (CT) scans; and a biopsy.  Treatment depends on the size and location of the tumor within the body, as well as the childs age. Surgery is often the first step of treatment, and may be followed by chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or a stem cell transplant in more severe cases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Kearns-Sayre Syndrome ?
Answer: There is currently no effective way to treat mitochondria abnormalities in KSS. Treatment is generally symptomatic and supportive. Management of KSS involves multiple specialties depending on the organs involved. The most essential is a regular and long-term follow-up with cardiologists. Conduction problems of heart impulse like heart block may be treated with a pacemaker. Other consultations may include audiology, ophthalmology, endocrinology, neurology, and neuropsychiatry. Hearing aids may be required. There is typically no treatment for limitation in eye movement. Endocrinology abnormalities can be treated with drugs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Collagenous colitis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of collagenous colitis? All individuals with collagenous colitis experience chronic, watery, non-bloody diarrhea which is what typically prompts individuals to seek medical attention. Onset of diarrhea may occur gradually over time or may be sudden and abrupt. Episodes of diarrhea may be intermittent and can occur over weeks, months or years. Other signs and symptoms that commonly occur in affected individuals include abdominal pain or cramping; flatulence; bloating; and weight loss. Incontinence, urgency, nausea, vomiting and fatigue have also been reported. Some individuals with collagenous colitis experience spontaneous remission even without treatment; however, relapses can occur.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Noonan syndrome 6 ?
Answer: How might Noonan syndrome be treated? Management generally focuses on the specific signs and symptoms present in each person. Treatments for the complications of Noonan syndrome (such as cardiovascular abnormalities) are generally standard and do not differ from treatment in the general population. Developmental disabilities are addressed by early intervention programs and individualized education strategies. Treatment for serious bleeding depends upon the specific factor deficiency or platelet abnormality. Growth hormone treatment increases growth velocity. More detailed information about treatment for Noonan syndrome can be viewed on the GeneReviews Web site.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Wilson Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct and/or support research related to Wilson disease. Growing knowledge of the copper transporting gene ATP7B, which in its mutated form causes WD, should lead to the design of better therapies for this disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is congenital dyserythropoietic anemia inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of CDA depends on the type of the disorder. CDA types I and II are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the associated gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In several families, CDA type III appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In these families, affected individuals often have a parent and other relatives with the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?
Answer: Children with a UTI should drink as much as they wish and not be forced to drink large amounts of fluid. The health care provider needs to know if a child is not interested in drinking or is unable to drink.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Intravenous leiomyomatosis ?
Answer: How might intravenous leiomyomatosis be treated? The mainstay of treatment for IVL is surgery to remove the tumor and its spread throughout the body. The use of anti-estrogen therapy, such as tamoxifen, has also been suggested. Surgery requires the complete removal of the tumor, since incomplete removal may result in a recurrence and hence further surgery or even death. Many affected individuals undergo a hysterectomy; bilateral oophorectomy is also suggested because these tumors are estrogen dependent. Part of a tumor left inside the pelvic veins at the time of hysterectomy can extend towards the right side of the heart, leading to obstruction and other adverse events later in life. The median time between hysterectomy to the diagnosis of IVL with cardiac involvement is 4 years. Once there is cardiac involvement, a patient may require open-heart surgery to remove the IVL from the affected areas.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Rickets ?
Answer: Rickets causes soft, weak bones in children. It usually occurs when they do not get enough vitamin D, which helps growing bones absorb the minerals calcium and phosphorous. It can also happen when calcium or phosphorus levels are too low.    Your child might not get enough vitamin D if he or she       - Has dark skin    - Spends too little time outside    - Has on sunscreen all the time when out of doors    - Doesn't eat foods containing vitamin D because of lactose intolerance or a strict vegetarian diet    - Is breastfed without receiving vitamin D supplements    - Can't make or use vitamin D because of a medical disorder such as celiac disease       In addition to dietary rickets, children can get an inherited form of the disease. Symptoms include bone pain or tenderness, impaired growth, and deformities of the bones and teeth. Your child's doctor uses lab and imaging tests to make the diagnosis. Treatment is replacing the calcium, phosphorus, or vitamin D that are lacking in the diet. Rickets is rare in the United States.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: Kidney dysplasia is a condition in which the internal structures of one or both of a fetus kidneys do not develop normally while in the womb. During normal development, two thin tubes of muscle called ureters grow into the kidneys and branch out to form a network of tiny structures called tubules. The tubules collect urine as the fetus grows in the womb. In kidney dysplasia, the tubules fail to branch out completely. Urine that would normally flow through the tubules has nowhere to go. Urine collects inside the affected kidney and forms fluid-filled sacs called cysts. The cysts replace normal kidney tissue and prevent the kidney from functioning.
                
Kidney dysplasia can affect one kidney or both kidneys. Babies with severe kidney dysplasia affecting both kidneys generally do not survive birth. Those who do survive may need the following early in life:
                
- blood-filtering treatments called dialysis  - a kidney transplant
                
Children with dysplasia in only one kidney have normal kidney function if the other kidney is unaffected. Those with mild dysplasia of both kidneys may not need dialysis or a kidney transplant for several years.
                
Kidney dysplasia is also called renal dysplasia or multicystic dysplastic kidney.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Thalassemias ?
Answer: Treatments for thalassemias depend on the type and severity of the disorder. People who are carriers or who have alpha or beta thalassemia trait have mild or no symptoms. Theyll likely need little or no treatment.
                
Doctors use three standard treatments for moderate and severe forms of thalassemia. These treatments include blood transfusions, iron chelation (ke-LAY-shun) therapy, and folic acid supplements. Other treatments have been developed or are being tested, but they're used much less often.
                
Standard Treatments
                
Blood Transfusions
                
Transfusions of red blood cells are the main treatment for people who have moderate or severe thalassemias. This treatment gives you healthy red blood cells with normal hemoglobin.
                
During a blood transfusion, a needle is used to insert an intravenous (IV) line into one of your blood vessels. Through this line, you receive healthy blood. The procedure usually takes 1 to 4 hours.
                
Red blood cells live only for about 120 days. So, you may need repeated transfusions to maintain a healthy supply of red blood cells.
                
If you have hemoglobin H disease or beta thalassemia intermedia, you may need blood transfusions on occasion. For example, you may have transfusions when you have an infection or other illness, or when your anemia is severe enough to cause tiredness.
                
If you have beta thalassemia major (Cooley's anemia), youll likely need regular blood transfusions (often every 2 to 4 weeks). These transfusions will help you maintain normal hemoglobin and red blood cell levels.
                
Blood transfusions allow you to feel better, enjoy normal activities, and live into adulthood. This treatment is lifesaving, but it's expensive and carries a risk of transmitting infections and viruses (for example, hepatitis). However, the risk is very low in the United States because of careful blood screening.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Blood Transfusion article.
                
Iron Chelation Therapy
                
The hemoglobin in red blood cells is an iron-rich protein. Thus, regular blood transfusions can lead to a buildup of iron in the blood. This condition is called iron overload. It damages the liver, heart, and other parts of the body.
                
To prevent this damage, doctors use iron chelation therapy to remove excess iron from the body. Two medicines are used for iron chelation therapy.
                
Deferoxamine is a liquid medicine that's given slowly under the skin, usually with a small portable pump used overnight. This therapy takes time and can be mildly painful. Side effects include problems with vision and hearing.
                
Deferasirox is a pill taken once daily. Side effects include headache, nausea (feeling sick to the stomach), vomiting, diarrhea, joint pain, and tiredness.
                
Folic Acid Supplements
                
Folic acid is a B vitamin that helps build healthy red blood cells. Your doctor may recommend folic acid supplements in addition to treatment with blood transfusions and/or iron chelation therapy.
                
Other Treatments
                
Other treatments for thalassemias have been developed or are being tested, but they're used much less often.
                
Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant
                
A blood and marrow stem cell transplant replaces faulty stem cells with healthy ones from another person (a donor). Stem cells are the cells inside bone marrow that make red blood cells and other types of blood cells.
                
A stem cell transplant is the only treatment that can cure thalassemia. But only a small number of people who have severe thalassemias are able to find a good donor match and have the risky procedure.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant article.
                
Possible Future Treatments
                
Researchers are working to find new treatments for thalassemias. For example, it might be possible someday to insert a normal hemoglobin gene into stem cells in bone marrow. This will allow people who have thalassemias to make their own healthy red blood cells and hemoglobin.
                
Researchers also are studying ways to trigger a person's ability to make fetal hemoglobin after birth. This type of hemoglobin is found in fetuses and newborns. After birth, the body switches to making adult hemoglobin. Making more fetal hemoglobin might make up for the lack of healthy adult hemoglobin.
                
Treating Complications
                
Better treatments now allow people who have moderate and severe thalassemias to live longer. As a result, these people must cope with complications that occur over time.
                
An important part of managing thalassemias is treating complications. Treatment might be needed for heart or liver diseases, infections, osteoporosis, and other health problems.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: How to diagnose Lactose Intolerance ?
Answer: A health care provider makes a diagnosis of lactose intolerance based on
                
- medical, family, and diet history, including a review of symptoms  - a physical exam  - medical tests
                
Medical, family, and diet history. A health care provider will take a medical, family, and diet history to help diagnose lactose intolerance. During this discussion, the health care provider will review a patients symptoms. However, basing a diagnosis on symptoms alone may be misleading because digestive symptoms can occur for many reasons other than lactose intolerance. For example, other conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome, celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease, or small bowel bacterial overgrowth can cause digestive symptoms.
                
Physical exam. A physical exam may help diagnose lactose intolerance or rule out other conditions that cause digestive symptoms. During a physical exam, a health care provider usually
                
- checks for abdominal bloating  - uses a stethoscope to listen to sounds within the abdomen  - taps on the abdomen to check for tenderness or pain
                
A health care provider may recommend eliminating all milk and milk products from a persons diet for a short time to see if the symptoms resolve. Symptoms that go away when a person eliminates lactose from his or her diet may confirm the diagnosis of lactose intolerance.
                
Medical tests. A health care provider may order special tests to provide more information. Health care providers commonly use two tests to measure how well a person digests lactose:
                
- Hydrogen breath test. This test measures the amount of hydrogen in a persons breath. Normally, only a small amount of hydrogen is detectable in the breath when a person eats or drinks and digests lactose. However, undigested lactose produces high levels of hydrogen. For this test, the patient drinks a beverage that contains a known amount of lactose. A health care provider asks the patient to breathe into a balloon-type container that measures breath hydrogen level. In most cases, a health care provider performs this test at a hospital, on an outpatient basis. Smoking and some foods and medications may affect the accuracy of the results. A health care provider will tell the patient what foods or medications to avoid before the test.  - Stool acidity test. Undigested lactose creates lactic acid and other fatty acids that a stool acidity test can detect in a stool sample. Health care providers sometimes use this test to check acidity in the stools of infants and young children. A child may also have glucose in his or her stool as a result of undigested lactose. The health care provider will give the childs parent or caretaker a container for collecting the stool specimen. The parent or caretaker returns the sample to the health care provider, who sends it to a lab for analysis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) polycystic kidney disease ?
Answer: Polycystic kidney disease is a disorder that affects the kidneys and other organs. Clusters of fluid-filled sacs, called cysts, develop in the kidneys and interfere with their ability to filter waste products from the blood. The growth of cysts causes the kidneys to become enlarged and can lead to kidney failure. Cysts may also develop in other organs, particularly the liver.  Frequent complications of polycystic kidney disease include dangerously high blood pressure (hypertension), pain in the back or sides, blood in the urine (hematuria), recurrent urinary tract infections, kidney stones, and heart valve abnormalities. Additionally, people with polycystic kidney disease have an increased risk of an abnormal bulging (an aneurysm) in a large blood vessel called the aorta or in blood vessels at the base of the brain. Aneurysms can be life-threatening if they tear or rupture.  The two major forms of polycystic kidney disease are distinguished by the usual age of onset and the pattern in which it is passed through families. The autosomal dominant form (sometimes called ADPKD) has signs and symptoms that typically begin in adulthood, although cysts in the kidney are often present from birth or childhood. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease can be further divided into type 1 and type 2, depending on the genetic cause. The autosomal recessive form of polycystic kidney disease (sometimes called ARPKD) is much rarer and is often lethal early in life. The signs and symptoms of this condition are usually apparent at birth or in early infancy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Glutaric acidemia type III ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Glutaric acidemia type III? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Glutaric acidemia type III. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Goiter 5% Hyperthyroidism 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Diarrhea - Failure to thrive - Glutaric aciduria - Hypertension - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports basic and translational research related to AD through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Current studies are investigating how the development of beta amyloid plaques damages neurons, and how abnormalities in tau proteins create the characteristic neurofibrillary tangles of AD. Other research is exploring the impact of risk factors associated with the development of AD, such as pre-existing problems with blood flow in the blood vessels of the brain. Most importantly, the NINDS supports a number of studies that are developing and testing new and novel therapies that can relieve the symptoms of AD and potentially lead to a cure.
                
On May 15, 2012 the Obama Administration announced the release of the National Alzheimers Plan. U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius reaffirmed our nations commitment to conquering Alzheimers disease and related dementias, with a specific goal of finding effective ways to prevent and treat the disease by 2025.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) recombinant 8 syndrome ?
Answer: Recombinant 8 syndrome is a condition that involves heart and urinary tract abnormalities, moderate to severe intellectual disability, and a distinctive facial appearance. The characteristic facial features include a wide, square face; a thin upper lip; a downturned mouth; a small chin (micrognathia); wide-set eyes (hypertelorism); and low-set or unusually shaped ears. People with recombinant 8 syndrome may have overgrowth of the gums (gingival hyperplasia) and abnormal tooth development. Males with this condition frequently have undescended testes (cryptorchidism). Some affected individuals have recurrent ear infections (otitis media) or hearing loss. Many children with recombinant 8 syndrome do not survive past early childhood, usually due to complications related to their heart abnormalities.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?
Answer: Gingivitis is inflammation of the gums. In gingivitis, the gums become red, swollen and can bleed easily. Gingivitis is a mild form of gum disease. It can usually be reversed with daily brushing and flossing, and regular cleaning by a dentist or dental hygienist. This form of gum disease does not include any loss of bone and tissue that hold teeth in place.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Tremor ?
Answer: Tremor is an unintentional, rhythmic, muscle movement involving to-and-fro movements of one or more parts of the body. Most tremors occur in the hands, although they can also affect the arms, head, face, voice, trunk, and legs. Sometimes tremor is a symptom of another neurological disorder or a side effect of certain drugs, but the most common form occurs in otherwise healthy people. Some forms of tremor are inherited and run in families, while others have no known cause. Excessive alcohol consumption or alcohol withdrawal can kill certain nerve cells, resulting in tremor, especially in the hand. Other causes include an overactive thyroid and the use of certain drugs. Tremor may occur at any age but is most common in middle-aged and older persons.
                
There are several forms of tremor, including:
                
Essential tremor (sometimes called benign essential tremor) is the most common form of abnormal tremor.The hands are most often affected but the head, voice, tongue, legs, and trunk may also be involved. Head tremor may be seen as a "yes-yes" or "no-no" motion. Onset is most common after age 40, although symptoms can appear at any age. Parkinsonian tremor is caused by damage to structures within the brain that control movement. The tremor is classically seen as a "pill-rolling" action of the hands but may also affect the chin, lips, legs, and trunk. Dystonic tremor occurs in individuals of all ages who are affected by dystonia, a movement disorder in which sustained involuntary muscle contractions cause twisting motions or painful postures or positions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Preauricular sinus ?
Answer: Preauricular sinus is a common birth defect that may be seen during a routine exam of a newborn. It generally appears as a tiny skin-lined hole or pit, often just in front of the upper ear where the cartilage of the ear rim meets the face. It may occur on one side (unilateral) or both sides (bilateral) of the ear. Affected people usually do not have any additional symptoms unless it becomes infected. Preauricular sinus may occur sporadically during the development of an embryo or it may be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with reduced penetrance. Less often, it occurs as a feature of another condition or syndrome. Treatment may include antibiotics for infection and/or surgery to remove the sinus.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Atrial Fibrillation and Stroke ?
Answer: Within a few hours after onset of a stroke, treatment with drugs or devices that dissolve or break up the clot can restore blood flow to the brain and lead to a better recovery. To prevent strokes related to AF, doctors often prescribe medications to prevent formation of clots in the heart, which can travel to the brain and cause stroke. Immediately after a stroke, doctors may temporarily administer heparin by injection, while starting an oral medication for long-term protection from clots. The most commonly used drug has been warfarin. People taking warfarin must be closely monitored to make sure their blood is thin enough to prevent clots, but not so thin as to promote bleeding. Since some foods, vitamin supplements, and medications can affect warfarin action, keeping the blood just thin enough can be tricky. More recently, a number of new blood thinners, including dabigatran, rivaroxaban, and apixaban, have been shown to be as effective as warfarin in stroke prevention. These newer medications do not require regular blood test monitoring and may have less tendency to cause bleeding due to making the blood too thin. Some individuals with AF may have a lower risk of stroke and may be treated with aspirin, either alone or with another antiplatelet agency like clopidogrel. Other treatments for AF include medications such as beta blockers or calcium channel blockers to slow the heartbeat, and anti-arrhythmic drugs or electrical cardioversion (which delivers an electrical shock to the heart) to normalize the heartbeat.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: are there complications from botulism?
Answer: Botulism can result in death due to respiratory failure. However, in the past 50 years the proportion of patients with botulism who die has fallen from about 50% to 3-5%. A patient with severe botulism may require a breathing machine as well as intensive medical and nursing care for several months, and some patients die from infections or other problems related to remaining paralyzed for weeks or months. Patients who survive an episode of botulism poisoning may have fatigue and shortness of breath for years and long-term therapy may be needed to aid recovery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What is (are) Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy is an inherited condition that predominantly affects the muscles, brain, and eyes. Congenital muscular dystrophies are a group of genetic conditions that cause muscle weakness and wasting (atrophy) beginning very early in life.  Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy affects the skeletal muscles, which are muscles the body uses for movement. The first signs of the disorder appear in early infancy and include a weak cry, poor feeding, and weak muscle tone (hypotonia). Weakness of the facial muscles often leads to a distinctive facial appearance including droopy eyelids (ptosis) and an open mouth. In childhood, muscle weakness and joint deformities (contractures) restrict movement and interfere with the development of motor skills such as sitting, standing, and walking.  Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy also impairs brain development. People with this condition have a brain abnormality called cobblestone lissencephaly, in which the surface of the brain develops a bumpy, irregular appearance (like that of cobblestones). These changes in the structure of the brain lead to significantly delayed development of speech and motor skills and moderate to severe intellectual disability. Social skills are less severely impaired. Most children with Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy are never able to stand or walk, although some can sit without support and slide across the floor in a seated position. More than half of all affected children also experience seizures.  Other signs and symptoms of Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy include impaired vision, other eye abnormalities, and slowly progressive heart problems after age 10. As the disease progresses, affected people may develop swallowing difficulties that can lead to a bacterial lung infection called aspiration pneumonia. Because of the serious medical problems associated with Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy, most people with the disorder live only into late childhood or adolescence.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Wolfram syndrome ?
Answer: How might Wolfram syndrome be treated? Treatment of Wolfram syndrome is supportive and based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. For example, almost all affected people require insulin to treat diabetes mellitus. People with hearing loss may benefit from hearing aids or cochlear implantation. For more detailed information regarding the treatment and management of Wolfram syndrome, click here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Thymoma and Thymic Carcinoma ?
Answer: Signs and symptoms of thymoma and thymic carcinoma include a cough and chest pain. Thymoma and thymic carcinoma may not cause early signs or symptoms. The cancer may be found during a routine chest x-ray. Signs and symptoms may be caused by thymoma, thymic carcinoma, or other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         - A cough that doesn't go away.    - Chest pain.    - Trouble breathing.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: Is Townes-Brocks syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Townes-Brocks syndrome genetic? Yes. Townes-Brocks syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about 50% of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. The other 50% have the condition as a result of a new (de novo) mutation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of MECP2 duplication syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of MECP2 duplication syndrome? MECP2 duplication syndrome is a condition that occurs almost exclusively in males and is characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability. Infants affected by this condition are generally diagnosed with severe hypotonia within the first few weeks of life. This reduced muscle tone can lead to feeding difficulties which may require a feeding tube. Trouble swallowing, gastroesophageal reflux, failure to thrive, and extensive drooling are also common symptoms. Distinctive physical features may be noticed shortly after birth which can include brachycephaly (abnormally flat back of the head), midface hypoplasia (underdevelopment of the middle of the face), large ears, deep-set eyes, prominent chin, and a depressed nasal bridge. Due to hypotonia, affected children often have delayed development of motor milestones such as sitting up and crawling. Approximately, one third of affected people never walk independently and those who are able to walk may have an abnormal gait (style of walking). In most cases, hypotonia gives way to spasticity during childhood. Progressive spasticity, which is generally more pronounced in the legs, may lead to the development of mild contractures. Consequently, many affected adults require the use of a wheelchair. The majority of affected people do not develop the ability to talk. Some may have limited speech during early childhood, but frequently this ability is progressively lost during adolescence. Other signs and symptoms associated with MECP2 duplication syndrome may include seizures; autistic features; clinically significant constipation and bladder dysfunction. Many people affected by MECP2 duplication syndrome have recurrent respiratory tract infections. These respiratory infections can be life-threatening and as a result, approximately half of affected people succumb by age 25. In most cases, females with a duplication of the MECP2 gene do not have any symptoms, although depression, anxiety, and autistic features have been described in some. When affected, women with MECP2 duplication syndrome are generally less severely affected than males with the condition. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for MECP2 duplication syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Abnormality of the teeth - Absent speech - Anxiety - Ataxia - Brachycephaly - Bruxism - Chorea - Constipation - Cryptorchidism - Depressed nasal bridge - Depression - Drooling - Dysphagia - Facial hypotonia - Flat midface - Gastroesophageal reflux - Infantile muscular hypotonia - Intellectual disability - Low-set ears - Macrocephaly - Macrotia - Malar flattening - Microcephaly - Narrow mouth - Poor eye contact - Progressive - Progressive spasticity - Recurrent respiratory infections - Rigidity - Seizures - Severe global developmental delay - Tented upper lip vermilion - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Prescription and Illicit Drug Abuse ?
Answer: Not always. Some warning signs, such as sleep problems, falls, mood swings, anxiety, depression, and memory problems -- can also be signs of other health conditions. As a result, doctors and family members often do not realize that an older person has a drug problem, and people may not get the help they need.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is the outlook for Dysgraphia ?
Answer: Some individuals with dysgraphia improve their writing ability, but for others, the disorder persists.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to juvenile hyaline fibromatosis ?
Answer: Mutations in the ANTXR2 gene (also known as the CMG2 gene) cause juvenile hyaline fibromatosis. The ANTXR2 gene provides instructions for making a protein involved in the formation of tiny blood vessels (capillaries). Researchers believe that the ANTXR2 protein is also important for maintaining the structure of basement membranes, which are thin, sheet-like structures that separate and support cells in many tissues.  The signs and symptoms of juvenile hyaline fibromatosis are caused by the accumulation of a clear (hyaline) substance in different parts of the body. The nature of this substance is not well known, but it is likely made up of protein and sugar molecules. Researchers suspect that mutations in the ANTXR2 gene disrupt the formation of basement membranes, allowing the hyaline substance to leak through and build up in various body tissues.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by atelosteogenesis type 2 ?
Answer: Atelosteogenesis type 2 is an extremely rare genetic disorder; its incidence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by uromodulin-associated kidney disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of uromodulin-associated kidney disease is unknown. It accounts for fewer than 1 percent of cases of kidney disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Gestational Trophoblastic Disease ?
Answer: Key Points
                    -  There are different types of treatment for patients with gestational trophoblastic disease.    - Three types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery     - Chemotherapy      - Radiation therapy         - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.     - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with gestational trophoblastic disease.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with gestational trophoblastic disease. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. Before starting treatment, patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website. Choosing the most appropriate cancer treatment is a decision that ideally involves the patient, family, and health care team.
                
                
                    Three types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery    The doctor may remove the cancer using one of the following operations:            -  Dilatation and curettage (D&C) with suction evacuation: A surgical procedure to remove abnormal tissue and parts of the inner lining of the uterus. The cervix is dilated and the material inside the uterus is removed with a small vacuum-like device. The walls of the uterus are then gently scraped with a curette (spoon-shaped instrument) to remove any material that may remain in the uterus. This procedure may be used for molar pregnancies.     -  Hysterectomy: Surgery to remove the uterus, and sometimes the cervix. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through the vagina, the operation is called a vaginal hysterectomy. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through a large incision (cut) in the abdomen, the operation is called a total abdominal hysterectomy. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through a small incision (cut) in the abdomen using a laparoscope, the operation is called a total laparoscopic hysterectomy.              Chemotherapy      Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated, or whether the tumor is low-risk or high-risk.     Combination chemotherapy is treatment using more than one anticancer drug.    Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, some patients may be given chemotherapy after surgery to kill any tumor cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.    See Drugs Approved for Gestational Trophoblastic Disease for more information.       Radiation therapy      Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of gestational trophoblastic disease being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat gestational trophoblastic disease.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.    Blood levels of beta human chorionic gonadotropin (-hCG) will be checked for up to 6 months after treatment has ended. This is because a -hCG level that is higher than normal may mean that the tumor has not responded to treatment or it has become cancer.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options for Gestational Trophoblastic Disease
		            
		                
		                    Hydatidiform Moles
		                    Treatment of a hydatidiform mole may include the following:         -  Surgery (Dilatation and curettage with suction evacuation) to remove the tumor.        After surgery, beta human chorionic gonadotropin (-hCG) blood tests are done every week until the -hCG level returns to normal. Patients also have follow-up doctor visits monthly for up to 6 months. If the level of -hCG does not return to normal or increases, it may mean the hydatidiform mole was not completely removed and it has become cancer. Pregnancy causes -hCG levels to increase, so your doctor will ask you not to become pregnant until follow-up is finished.   For disease that remains after surgery, treatment is usually chemotherapy.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with hydatidiform mole. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia
		                    Low-risk Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia    Treatment of low-risk gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) (invasive mole or choriocarcinoma) may include the following:            -  Chemotherapy with one or more anticancer drugs. Treatment is given until the beta human chorionic gonadotropin (-hCG) level is normal for at least 3 weeks after treatment ends.           If the level of -hCG in the blood does not return to normal or the tumor spreads to distant parts of the body, chemotherapy regimens used for high-risk metastatic GTN are given.    Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with low risk metastatic gestational trophoblastic tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.       High-risk Metastatic Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia    Treatment of high-risk metastatic gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (invasive mole or choriocarcinoma) may include the following:            -  Combination chemotherapy.     -  Intrathecal chemotherapy and radiation therapy to the brain (for cancer that has spread to the lung, to keep it from spreading to the brain).     -  High-dose chemotherapy or intrathecal chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy to the brain (for cancer that has spread to the brain).           Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with high risk metastatic gestational trophoblastic tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.       Placental-Site Gestational Trophoblastic Tumors and Epithelioid Trophoblastic Tumors    Treatment of stage I placental-site gestational trophoblastic tumors and epithelioid trophoblastic tumors may include the following:            -  Surgery to remove the uterus.           Treatment of stage II placental-site gestational trophoblastic tumors and epithelioid trophoblastic tumors may include the following:            - Surgery to remove the tumor, which may be followed by combination chemotherapy.           Treatment of stage III and IV placental-site gestational trophoblastic tumors and epithelioid trophoblastic tumors may include following:            - Combination chemotherapy.     - Surgery to remove cancer that has spread to other places, such as the lung or abdomen.           Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with placental-site gestational trophoblastic tumor and epithelioid trophoblastic tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Recurrent or Resistant Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia
		                    Treatment of recurrent or resistant gestational trophoblastic tumor may include the following:         -  Chemotherapy with one or more anticancer drugs for tumors previously treated with surgery.    -  Combination chemotherapy for tumors previously treated with chemotherapy.    - Surgery for tumors that do not respond to chemotherapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent gestational trophoblastic tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Congenital alopecia X-linked ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Congenital alopecia X-linked? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Congenital alopecia X-linked. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the eye 90% Abnormality of the skin 90% Alopecia 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 90% Hypotrichosis - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) SADDAN ?
Answer: SADDAN (severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans) is a rare disorder of bone growth characterized by skeletal, brain, and skin abnormalities.  All people with this condition have extremely short stature with particularly short arms and legs. Other features include unusual bowing of the leg bones; a small chest with short ribs and curved collar bones; short, broad fingers; and folds of extra skin on the arms and legs. Structural abnormalities of the brain cause seizures, profound developmental delay, and intellectual disability. Several affected individuals also have had episodes in which their breathing slows or stops for short periods (apnea). Acanthosis nigricans, a progressive skin disorder characterized by thick, dark, velvety skin, is another characteristic feature of SADDAN that develops in infancy or early childhood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Goldenhar disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Goldenhar disease? The major signs and symptoms of Goldenhar disease are usually only seen on one side of the body. These major features include a partially formed ear (microtia) or totally absent ear (anotia), noncancerous (benign) growths of the eye (ocular dermoid cysts), and spinal abnormalities. Affected individuals may have a variety of other signs and symptoms involving the ears, eyes, and spine as well as the face, heart, lungs, and central nervous system. The severity of these features can vary greatly among individuals with Goldenhar disease. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Goldenhar disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Facial asymmetry 90% Hearing impairment 90% Preauricular skin tag 90% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 50% Abnormality of the inner ear 50% Abnormality of the middle ear 50% Atresia of the external auditory canal 50% Cleft palate 50% Epibulbar dermoid 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Non-midline cleft lip 50% Abnormal localization of kidney 7.5% Abnormality of the pharynx 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 7.5% Autism 7.5% Cerebral cortical atrophy 7.5% Cleft eyelid 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Laryngomalacia 7.5% Muscular hypotonia 7.5% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Tracheoesophageal fistula 7.5% Tracheomalacia 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% Ventriculomegaly 7.5% Vertebral segmentation defect 7.5% Visual impairment 7.5% Wide mouth 7.5% Agenesis of corpus callosum - Anophthalmia - Anotia - Arnold-Chiari malformation - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Blepharophimosis - Block vertebrae - Branchial anomaly - Cleft upper lip - Coarctation of aorta - Conductive hearing impairment - Ectopic kidney - Hemivertebrae - Hydrocephalus - Hypoplasia of facial musculature - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Intellectual disability - Malar flattening - Microphthalmia - Microtia - Multicystic kidney dysplasia - Occipital encephalocele - Patent ductus arteriosus - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Renal agenesis - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Strabismus - Unilateral external ear deformity - Upper eyelid coloboma - Ureteropelvic junction obstruction - Vertebral hypoplasia - Vesicoureteral reflux - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Alzheimer's Caregiving ?
Answer: Here are some ways you can learn more about Alzheimers disease. - Talk with a doctor or other healthcare provider who specializes in Alzheimers disease.  - Check out books or videos about Alzheimers from the library.  - Go to educational programs about the disease.   - Visit the website of the National Institute on Aging's  Alzheimer's Disease and Referral Center (ADEAR).   - The National Institute on Aging has a book, Caring for a Person with Alzheimers Disease, that can be viewed and ordered at www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers/publication/caring-person-alzheimers-disease  -  Read about  Alzheimer's disease on NIHSeniorHealth. Talk with a doctor or other healthcare provider who specializes in Alzheimers disease. Check out books or videos about Alzheimers from the library. Go to educational programs about the disease. Visit the website of the National Institute on Aging's  Alzheimer's Disease and Referral Center (ADEAR). The National Institute on Aging has a book, Caring for a Person with Alzheimers Disease, that can be viewed and ordered at www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers/publication/caring-person-alzheimers-disease Read about  Alzheimer's disease on NIHSeniorHealth.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Who is at risk for Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia? ?
Answer: Older age and being male increase the risk of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Possible risk factors for CMML include the following:         - Older age.    - Being male.    - Being exposed to certain substances at work or in the environment.    - Being exposed to radiation.    - Past treatment with certain anticancer drugs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) hypermethioninemia ?
Answer: Hypermethioninemia is an excess of a particular protein building block (amino acid), called methionine, in the blood. This condition can occur when methionine is not broken down (metabolized) properly in the body.  People with hypermethioninemia often do not show any symptoms. Some individuals with hypermethioninemia exhibit intellectual disability and other neurological problems; delays in motor skills such as standing or walking; sluggishness; muscle weakness; liver problems; unusual facial features; and their breath, sweat, or urine may have a smell resembling boiled cabbage.  Hypermethioninemia can occur with other metabolic disorders, such as homocystinuria, tyrosinemia and galactosemia, which also involve the faulty breakdown of particular molecules. It can also result from liver disease or excessive dietary intake of methionine from consuming large amounts of protein or a methionine-enriched infant formula.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Senior-Lken syndrome ?
Answer: Senior-Lken syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by the combination of two specific features: a kidney condition called nephronophthisis and an eye condition known as Leber congenital amaurosis.  Nephronophthisis causes fluid-filled cysts to develop in the kidneys beginning in childhood. These cysts impair kidney function, initially causing increased urine production (polyuria), excessive thirst (polydipsia), general weakness, and extreme tiredness (fatigue). Nephronophthisis leads to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) later in childhood or in adolescence. ESRD is a life-threatening failure of kidney function that occurs when the kidneys are no longer able to filter fluids and waste products from the body effectively.  Leber congenital amaurosis primarily affects the retina, which is the specialized tissue at the back of the eye that detects light and color. This condition causes vision problems, including an increased sensitivity to light (photophobia), involuntary movements of the eyes (nystagmus), and extreme farsightedness (hyperopia). Some people with Senior-Lken syndrome develop the signs of Leber congenital amaurosis within the first few years of life, while others do not develop vision problems until later in childhood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) 15q24 microdeletion ?
Answer: 15q24 microdeletion is a chromosomal change in which a small piece of chromosome 15 is deleted in each cell. The deletion occurs on the long (q) arm of the chromosome at a position designated q24.  15q24 microdeletion is associated with mild to moderate intellectual disability and delayed speech development. Other common signs and symptoms include short stature, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and skeletal abnormalities including loose (lax) joints. Affected males may have genital abnormalities, which can include an unusually small penis (micropenis) and the opening of the urethra on the underside of the penis (hypospadias). Affected individuals also have distinctive facial features such as a high front hairline, broad eyebrows, widely set eyes (hypertelorism), outside corners of the eyes that point downward (downslanting palpebral fissures), a broad nasal bridge, a full lower lip, and a long, smooth space between the upper lip and nose (philtrum).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to hereditary multiple osteochondromas ?
Answer: Mutations in the EXT1 and EXT2 genes cause hereditary multiple osteochondromas. The EXT1 gene and the EXT2 gene provide instructions for producing the proteins exostosin-1 and exostosin-2, respectively. The two exostosin proteins bind together and form a complex found in a cell structure called the Golgi apparatus, which modifies newly produced enzymes and other proteins. In the Golgi apparatus, the exostosin-1 and exostosin-2 complex modifies a protein called heparan sulfate so it can be used by the cell.  When there is a mutation in exostosin-1 or exostosin-2, heparan sulfate cannot be processed correctly and is nonfunctional. Although heparan sulfate is involved in many bodily processes, it is unclear how the lack of this protein contributes to the development of osteochondromas.  If the condition is caused by a mutation in the EXT1 gene it is called hereditary multiple osteochondromas type 1. A mutation in the EXT2 gene causes hereditary multiple osteochondromas type 2. While both type 1 and type 2 involve multiple osteochondromas, mutations in the EXT1 gene likely account for 55 to 75 percent of all cases of hereditary multiple osteochondromas, and the severity of symptoms associated with osteochondromas seems to be greater in type 1.  Researchers estimate that about 15 percent of people with hereditary multiple osteochondromas have no mutation in either the EXT1 or the EXT2 gene. It is not known why multiple osteochondromas form in these individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Cole disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases of this disorder, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Colorectal Cancer ?
Answer: Researchers continue to look at new ways to treat, diagnose, and prevent colorectal cancer. Many are testing other types of treatments in clinical trials. Advances in Treatments Studies have found that patients who took the drug Avastin, a targeted chemotherapy drug, with their standard chemotherapy treatment had a longer progression-free survival than those who did not take Avastin, but some studies have indicated that Avastin does not extend life. (The generic name for Avastin is bevacizumab.) Scientists are also working on vaccines therapies and monoclonal antibodies that may improve how patients' immune systems respond to colorectal cancers. Monoclonal antibodies are a single type of antibody that researchers make in large amounts in a laboratory. Surgical techniques have reduced the number of patients needing a permanent colostomy. A colostomy is an opening made in the abdomen for waste to pass out of the body before it reaches the rectum. In many cases, the surgeon can reconnect the healthy parts of the colon back together after removing the cancer. This way, the colon can function just as it did before. The PLCO Trial The National Cancer Institute's Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial, or PLCO Trial, recently provided results about the role of sigmoidoscopy in reducing deaths from colon and rectal cancers. The PLCO trial, involving 148,000 volunteers aged 55 to 74, compared two groups of people over a 10-year period and found that the group that received sigmoidoscopies had fewer deaths from colorectal cancer than those who did not get a sigmoidoscopy. NSAIDs and Polyp Formation Preventing colorectal cancer is a concern of many researchers. Studies have shown that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can keep large-bowel polyps from forming. Bowel polyps can start out benign, or non-cancerous, but can become cancerous. However, the effects that these drugs have on the heart and other parts of the body is of concern, therefore these drugs should only be used for prevention under a doctor's supervision. Genetic Research Genes involved in colorectal cancer continue to be identified and understood. Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, or HNPCC, is one condition that causes people in a certain family to develop colorectal cancer at a young age. The discovery of four genes involved with this disease has provided crucial clues about the role of DNA repair in colorectal and other cancers. Scientists are continuing to identify genes associated with colon cancers that run in families. Using traditional screening methods on people from families that carry these genes may be another way to identify cancers at an early stage and cut deaths from colorectal cancer. Genetic screening of people at high risk may become more common in the near future Besides looking at genes in families, researchers in the The Cancer Genome Atlas study looked at the genes of actual colon tumors to better understand the contribution that genes make to cancer. By looking at the genetic composition of the tumor, researchers were able to identify new mutations (changes) in the genes that can lead to cancer, including the genes BRAF and EGRF.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the genetic changes related to sialidosis ?
Answer: Mutations in the NEU1 gene cause sialidosis. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called neuraminidase 1 (NEU1), which is found in lysosomes. Lysosomes are compartments within the cell that use enzymes to digest and recycle materials. The NEU1 enzyme helps break down large sugar molecules attached to certain proteins by removing a substance known as sialic acid.  Mutations in the NEU1 gene lead to a shortage (deficiency) of the NEU1 enzyme. When this enzyme is lacking, sialic acid-containing compounds accumulate inside lysosomes. Conditions such as sialidosis that cause molecules to build up inside lysosomes are called lysosomal storage disorders. People with sialidosis type II have mutations that severely reduce or eliminate NEU1 enzyme activity. Individuals with sialidosis type I have mutations that result in some functional NEU1 enzyme. It is unclear exactly how the accumulation of large molecules within lysosomes leads to the signs and symptoms of sialidosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Myopathy ?
Answer: The prognosis for individuals with a myopathy varies. Some individuals have a normal life span and little or no disability. For others, however, the disorder may be progressive, severely disabling, life-threatening, or fatal.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Perniosis ?
Answer: Perniosis are itchy and/or tender red or purple bumps that occur as a reaction to cold. In severe cases, blistering, pustules, scabs and ulceration may also develop. Occasionally, the lesions may be ring-shaped. They may become thickened and persist for months. Perniosis is a form of vasculitis. Signs and symptoms occur hours after cold exposure. Risk factors for perniosis include having poor blood circulation (such as due to diabetes or smoking), a family history of perniosis, poor nutrition, and low body weight. Perniosis may occur alone or in association with an autoimmune condition (e.g., lupus, scleroderma), bone marrow disorder, or cancer. Treatment aims to relieve symptoms and prevent infection. Lifestyle/adaptive changes may also be recommended to prevent future symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Malignant eccrine spiradenoma ?
Answer: Malignant eccrine spiradenoma is a type of tumor that develops from a sweat gland in the skin.  It starts as a rapidly-growing bump on the head or abdomen, and may cause tenderness, redness, or an open wound.  The exact cause of malignant eccrine spiradenoma is unknown, though it is thought that sun exposure or problems with the immune system (immunosuppression) may contribute to the development of this tumor.  Because malignant eccrine spiradenoma is quite rare, there are no established treatment guidelines; however, in practice, surgery is often performed to remove the tumor and additional treatments may follow, depending on the severity and extent of the cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) 47, XYY syndrome ?
Answer: 47, XYY syndrome is a condition in males characterized by features that occur due to having an extra copy of the Y chromosome in each cell. Signs and symptoms can vary and range from barely noticeable to more severe; many men with the extra Y chromosome are completely unaware of its presence. Appearance and intelligence are usually normal, but learning disabilities may be present. Other signs and symptoms may include autism spectrum disorder (usually on the milder end); speech or motor delay; low muscle tone; asthma; tall stature; impaired social skills; ADHD; and/or anxiety or mood disorders. While sexual development and infertility is usually normal, some adolescents and adults have testicular failure. 47, XYY syndrome usually is not inherited, occurring due to a random event in the formation of a sperm cell prior to conception. Management depends on the symptoms in each person and may include intervention or therapies for developmental delays, behavior or mood disorders; and/or special education.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Alport syndrome ?
Answer: Alport syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 50,000 newborns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Prostate Enlargement: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ?
Answer: Benign prostatic hyperplasiaalso called BPHis a condition in men in which the prostate gland is enlarged and not cancerous. Benign prostatic hyperplasia is also called benign prostatic hypertrophy or benign prostatic obstruction.
                
The prostate goes through two main growth periods as a man ages. The first occurs early in puberty, when the prostate doubles in size. The second phase of growth begins around age 25 and continues during most of a mans life. Benign prostatic hyperplasia often occurs with the second growth phase.
                
As the prostate enlarges, the gland presses against and pinches the urethra. The bladder wall becomes thicker. Eventually, the bladder may weaken and lose the ability to empty completely, leaving some urine in the bladder. The narrowing of the urethra and urinary retentionthe inability to empty the bladder completelycause many of the problems associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of GM1 gangliosidosis type 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of GM1 gangliosidosis type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for GM1 gangliosidosis type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of blood and blood-forming tissues - Abnormality of the face - Anterior beaking of lumbar vertebrae - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Decreased beta-galactosidase activity - Diffuse cerebral atrophy - Dystonia - Flared iliac wings - Foam cells - Hypoplastic acetabulae - Intellectual disability, mild - Kyphosis - Opacification of the corneal stroma - Platyspondyly - Scoliosis - Short stature - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Slurred speech - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Friedreich ataxia inherited ?
Answer: How is Friedreich ataxia inherited? Friedreich ataxia is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ?
Answer: Tests that examine the blood, bone marrow, and lymph nodes are used to detect (find) and diagnose chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.     -   Complete blood count (CBC) with differential : A procedure in which a sample of blood is drawn and checked for the following:                -  The number of red blood cells and platelets.      - The number and type of white blood cells.      - The amount of hemoglobin (the protein that carries oxygen) in the red blood cells.      - The portion of the blood sample made up of red blood cells.              -   Immunophenotyping : A laboratory test in which the antigens or markers on the surface of a blood or bone marrow cell are checked to see if they are lymphocytes or myeloid cells. If the cells are malignant lymphocytes (cancer), they are checked to see if they are B lymphocytes or T lymphocytes.    -   FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization): A laboratory technique used to look at genes or chromosomes in cells and tissues. Pieces of DNA that contain a fluorescent dye are made in the laboratory and added to cells or tissues on a glass slide. When these pieces of DNA bind to specific genes or areas of chromosomes on the slide, they light up when viewed under a microscope with a special light.     -   Flow cytometry : A laboratory test that measures the number of cells in a sample, the percentage of live cells in a sample, and certain characteristics of cells, such as size, shape, and the presence of tumor markers on the cell surface. The cells are stained with a light-sensitive dye, placed in a fluid, and passed in a stream before a laser or other type of light. The measurements are based on how the light-sensitive dye reacts to the light.    -   IgVH gene mutation test: A laboratory test done on a bone marrow or blood sample to check for an IgVH gene mutation. Patients with an IgVH gene mutation have a better prognosis.    -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow, blood, and a small piece of bone by inserting a hollow needle into the hipbone or breastbone. A pathologist views the bone marrow, blood, and bone under a microscope to look for abnormal cells.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Erythema nodosum, idiopathic ?
Answer: Erythema nodosum (EN) is a skin condition in which red bumps (nodules) form on the shins. Less commonly, the nodules form on other areas of the body such as the thighs and forearms. The lesions begin as firm, hot, red, painful lumps and progress to a purplish color. EN is a type of inflammatory disorder affecting the layer of fat under the skin (panniculitis). Other symptoms that may accompany the skin findings include the following: fever, a general feeling of being ill. joint aches, and swelling of the affected area. In many cases, EN is presumed to be a delayed reaction to antigens associated with various infections, drugs, and certain systemic diseases. In many cases, however, EN has no identifiable cause (idiopathic); in these cases, clinical follow-up is needed to rule out certain conditions including inflammatory bowel disease, sarcoidosis, lymphoma, and Behcet's disease. Treatment may include rest, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), steroids, hot or cold compresses, potassium iodide solution, and supportive bandages or compression stockings. Symptoms usually resolve within six weeks, but EN may become a chronic disorder lasting for months and, occasionally, for years. Approximately 30% cases of idiopathic EN may last more than 6 months.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) triple X syndrome ?
Answer: Triple X syndrome, also called trisomy X or 47,XXX, is characterized by the presence of an additional X chromosome in each of a female's cells. Although females with this condition may be taller than average, this chromosomal change typically causes no unusual physical features. Most females with triple X syndrome have normal sexual development and are able to conceive children.  Triple X syndrome is associated with an increased risk of learning disabilities and delayed development of speech and language skills. Delayed development of motor skills (such as sitting and walking), weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and behavioral and emotional difficulties are also possible, but these characteristics vary widely among affected girls and women. Seizures or kidney abnormalities occur in about 10 percent of affected females.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibers ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of MERRF:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: MERRF  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myoclonus with epilepsy with ragged red fibers  - Kennedy Krieger Institute: Mitochondrial Disorders  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Lipoma  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Optic nerve atrophy  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Peripheral Neuropathy  - MitoAction: Tips and Tools for Living with Mito  - United Mitochondrial Disease Foundation: Treatments and Therapies   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Talipes equinovarus ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Talipes equinovarus? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Talipes equinovarus. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Foot polydactyly 5% Patellar hypoplasia 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Incomplete penetrance - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Hunter Rudd Hoffmann syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hunter Rudd Hoffmann syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hunter Rudd Hoffmann syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal dermatoglyphics 90% Abnormality of the distal phalanx of finger 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Convex nasal ridge 90% Craniosynostosis 90% Epicanthus 90% Hypotelorism 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Narrow forehead 90% Prominent metopic ridge 90% Ptosis 90% Short stature 90% Trigonocephaly 90% Underdeveloped supraorbital ridges 90% Wide mouth 90% Wide nasal bridge 90% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% EEG abnormality 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Proptosis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% Broad secondary alveolar ridge - High palate - Inguinal hernia - Intellectual disability - Lambdoidal craniosynostosis - Low-set ears - Posteriorly rotated ears - Premature posterior fontanelle closure - Sagittal craniosynostosis - Small anterior fontanelle - Small for gestational age - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Huntington disease ?
Answer: What causes Huntington disease? Huntington disease (HD) is caused by a change (mutation) in the HTT gene. This gene gives instructions for making a protein called huntingtin. The exact function of this protein is unclear, but it appears to be important to nerve cells (neurons) in the brain. The HTT gene mutation that causes HD involves a DNA segment known as a CAG trinucleotide repeat. This segment is made up of three DNA building blocks that repeat multiple times in a row. The CAG segment in a normal HTT gene repeats about 10 to 35 times. In people with HD, it may repeat from 36 to over 120 times. People with 36 to 39 CAG repeats (an intermediate size) may or may not develop HD, while people with 40 or more repeats almost always develop HD. An increased number of CAG repeats leads to an abnormally long version of the huntingtin protein. The long protein is then cut into smaller, toxic pieces that end up sticking together and accumulating in neurons. This disrupts the function of the neurons, ultimately causing the features of HD.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Anal Cancer ?
Answer: Signs of anal cancer include bleeding from the anus or rectum or a lump near the anus. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by anal cancer or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:          - Bleeding from the anus or rectum.    - Pain or pressure in the area around the anus.    - Itching or discharge from the anus.    - A lump near the anus.    - A change in bowel habits.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Neuhauser Eichner Opitz syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Neuhauser Eichner Opitz syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Neuhauser Eichner Opitz syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hypertonia 90% Incoordination 90% Abnormality of movement 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Babinski sign 30% Behavioral abnormality 7.5% Muscular hypotonia 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Areflexia - Athetosis - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Choreoathetosis - Dysarthria - Intention tremor - Lethargy - Recurrent encephalopathy - Truncal ataxia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1 inherited? Hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1 (HSN1) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated gene from the affected parent. In rare cases, a mutation that causes HSN1 occurs sporadically as a new (de novo) mutation in a person without an affected parent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an adverse reaction to the drug heparin resulting in an abnormally low amount of platelets (thrombocytopenia). HIT is usually an immune response which typically occurs 4-10 days after exposure to heparin; it can lead to serious complications and be life-threatening. This condition occurs in up to 5% of those who are exposed to heparin. Characteristic signs of HIT are a drop in platelet count of  greater than 50% and/or the formation of new blood clots during heparin therapy.  The first step of treatment is to discontinue and avoid all heparin products immediately. Often, affected individuals require another medicine to prevent blood clotting (anticoagulants).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is inherited thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Inherited thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency has an X-linked pattern of inheritance. The SERPINA7 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes partial or complete inherited thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell reduces the amount of thyroxine-binding globulin. However, their levels of this protein are usually within the normal range.  A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Fabry disease ?
Answer: Fabry disease is an inherited disorder that results from the buildup of a particular type of fat, called globotriaosylceramide, in the body's cells. Beginning in childhood, this buildup causes signs and symptoms that affect many parts of the body. Characteristic features of Fabry disease include episodes of pain, particularly in the hands and feet (acroparesthesias); clusters of small, dark red spots on the skin called angiokeratomas; a decreased ability to sweat (hypohidrosis); cloudiness of the front part of the eye (corneal opacity); problems with the gastrointestinal system; ringing in the ears (tinnitus); and hearing loss. Fabry disease also involves potentially life-threatening complications such as progressive kidney damage, heart attack, and stroke. Some affected individuals have milder forms of the disorder that appear later in life and affect only the heart or kidneys.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) multiminicore disease ?
Answer: Multiminicore disease is a disorder that primarily affects muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles). This condition causes muscle weakness and related health problems that range from mild to life-threatening.  Researchers have identified at least four forms of multiminicore disease, which can be distinguished by their characteristic signs and symptoms. The most common form, called the classic form, causes muscle weakness beginning in infancy or early childhood. This weakness is most noticeable in muscles of the trunk and neck (axial muscles) and is less severe in the arm and leg muscles. Muscle weakness causes affected infants to appear "floppy" (hypotonic) and can delay the development of motor skills such as sitting, standing, and walking. The disease causes muscles of the ribcage and spine to stiffen. When combined with weakness of the muscles needed for breathing, this stiffness leads to severe or life-threatening respiratory problems. Almost all children with multiminicore disease develop an abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis), which appears during childhood and steadily worsens over time.  Other forms of multiminicore disease have different patterns of signs and symptoms. They are less common than the classic form, together accounting for about 25 percent of all cases. The atypical forms of the condition tend to be milder and cause few or no problems with breathing. The moderate form with hand involvement causes muscle weakness and looseness of the joints, particularly in the arms and hands. Another form of multiminicore disease, known as the antenatal form with arthrogryposis, is characterized by stiff, rigid joints throughout the body (arthrogryposis), distinctive facial features, and other birth defects. Paralysis of the eye muscles (external ophthalmoplegia) is a primary feature of another atypical form of multiminicore disease. This form of the condition also causes general muscle weakness and feeding difficulties that appear in the first year of life.  Many people with multiminicore disease also have an increased risk of a developing a severe reaction to certain drugs used during surgery and other invasive procedures. This reaction is called malignant hyperthermia. Malignant hyperthermia occurs in response to some anesthetic gases, which are used to block the sensation of pain, and with a particular type of muscle relaxant. If given these drugs, people at risk for malignant hyperthermia may experience muscle rigidity, breakdown of muscle fibers (rhabdomyolysis), a high fever, increased acid levels in the blood and other tissues (acidosis), and a rapid heart rate. The complications of malignant hyperthermia can be life-threatening unless they are treated promptly.  Multiminicore disease gets its name from small, disorganized areas called minicores, which are found in muscle fibers of many affected individuals. These abnormal regions can only be seen under a microscope. Although the presence of minicores can help doctors diagnose multiminicore disease, it is unclear how they are related to muscle weakness and the other features of this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for lymphangioleiomyomatosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of LAM:  - Canadian Lung Association  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lymphangiomyomatosis  - Merck Manual for Healthcare Professionals  - National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute: How is LAM Diagnosed?  - National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute: How is LAM Treated?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Cerebro-Oculo-Facio-Skeletal Syndrome (COFS) ?
Answer: Treatment is supportive and symptomatic. Individuals with the disorder often require tube feeding. Because COFS is genetic, genetic counseling is available.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to uromodulin-associated kidney disease ?
Answer: Mutations in the UMOD gene cause uromodulin-associated kidney disease. This gene provides instructions for making the uromodulin protein, which is produced by the kidneys and then excreted from the body in urine. The function of uromodulin remains unclear, although it is known to be the most abundant protein in the urine of healthy individuals. Researchers have suggested that uromodulin may protect against urinary tract infections. It may also help control the amount of water in urine.  Most mutations in the UMOD gene change single protein building blocks (amino acids) used to make uromodulin. These mutations alter the structure of the protein, preventing its release from kidney cells. Abnormal buildup of uromodulin may trigger the self-destruction (apoptosis) of cells in the kidneys, causing progressive kidney disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Metachromatic leukodystrophy ?
Answer: Metachromatic leukodystrophy is an inherited condition characterized by the accumulation of fats called sulfatides in cells, especially cells of the nervous system. This accumulation results in progressive destruction of white matter of the brain, which consists of nerve fibers covered by myelin. Affected individuals experience progressive deterioration of intellectual functions and motor skills, such as the ability to walk. They also develop loss of sensation in the extremities, incontinence, seizures, paralysis, inability to speak, blindness, and hearing loss. Eventually they lose awareness of their surroundings and become unresponsive. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and is caused by mutations in the ARSA and PSAP genes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Developmental Dyspraxia ?
Answer: Developmental dyspraxia is a disorder characterized by an impairment in the ability to plan and carry out sensory and motor tasks. Generally, individuals with the disorder appear "out of sync" with their environment. Symptoms vary and may include poor balance and coordination, clumsiness, vision problems, perception difficulties, emotional and behavioral problems, difficulty with reading, writing, and speaking, poor social skills, poor posture, and poor short-term memory. Although individuals with the disorder may be of average or above average intelligence, they may behave immaturely.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to multiple sclerosis ?
Answer: Although the cause of multiple sclerosis is unknown, variations in dozens of genes are thought to be involved in multiple sclerosis risk. Changes in the HLA-DRB1 gene are the strongest genetic risk factors for developing multiple sclerosis. Other factors associated with an increased risk of developing multiple sclerosis include changes in the IL7R gene and environmental factors, such as exposure to the Epstein-Barr virus, low levels of vitamin D, and smoking.  The HLA-DRB1 gene belongs to a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The HLA complex helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). Each HLA gene has many different normal variations, allowing each person's immune system to react to a wide range of foreign proteins. Variations in several HLA genes have been associated with increased multiple sclerosis risk, but one particular variant of the HLA-DRB1 gene, called HLA-DRB1*15:01, is the most strongly linked genetic factor.  The IL7R gene provides instructions for making one piece of two different receptor proteins: the interleukin 7 (IL-7) receptor and the thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) receptor. Both receptors are embedded in the cell membrane of immune cells. These receptors stimulate signaling pathways that induce the growth and division (proliferation) and survival of immune cells. The genetic variation involved in multiple sclerosis leads to production of an IL-7 receptor that is not embedded in the cell membrane but is instead found inside the cell. It is unknown if this variation affects the TSLP receptor.  Because the HLA-DRB1 and IL-7R genes are involved in the immune system, changes in either might be related to the autoimmune response that damages the myelin sheath and nerve cells and leads to the signs and symptoms of multiple sclerosis. However, it is unclear exactly what role variations in either gene plays in development of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is branchio-oculo-facial syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Branchio-oculo-facial syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In about half of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases occur in people whose parents do not have a mutation in the TFAP2A gene. In these situations, the mutation likely occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) in a parent or in early fetal development of the affected individual.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Prostate cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the prostate.    - Prostate cancer is the second most common cancer among men in the United States.
                
                
                    Prostate cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the prostate.
                    The prostate is a gland in the male reproductive system. The prostate is just below the bladder (the organ that collects and empties urine) and in front of the rectum (the lower part of the intestine). It is about the size of a walnut and surrounds part of the urethra (the tube that empties urine from the bladder). The prostate gland produces fluid that makes up part of the semen.       As men age, the prostate may get bigger. A bigger prostate may block the flow of urine from the bladder and cause problems with sexual function. This condition is called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). BPH is not cancer, but surgery may be needed to correct it. The symptoms of BPH or of other problems in the prostate may be like symptoms of prostate cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How to diagnose Pachyonychia congenita ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for pachyonychia congenita? Yes, genetic testing is available for the five genes known to cause pachyonychia congenita. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal testing are possible if the disease-causing mutation in the family is known. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) is a centralized online resource for information about genetic tests. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional. How is pachyonychia congenita diagnosed? A diagnosis of pachyonychia congenita (PC) is often suspected based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. In fact, one study found that approximately 97% of people with genetically confirmed PC have toenail thickening, plantar keratoderma (thickening of the skin on the soles of the feet) and plantar pain by age ten. Identification of a change (mutation) in one of the five genes associated with PC confirms the diagnosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome ?
Answer: Craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome is an extremely rare condition. Only a few cases have been reported in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Age-related Macular Degeneration ?
Answer: The daily amounts used by the study researchers were 500 milligrams of vitamin C, 400 International Units of vitamin E, 15 milligrams of beta-carotene, 80 milligrams of zinc as zinc oxide, and 2 milligrams of copper as cupric oxide. Copper was added to the AREDS formulation containing zinc to prevent copper deficiency anemia, a condition associated with high levels of zinc intake.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: How might dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency be treated in infants and children? Currently, no treatment or cure exists for the inborn error of metabolism form of DHD deficiency. Symptoms usually remain the same throughout the person's life.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Holt-Oram syndrome ?
Answer: Holt-Oram syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to atelosteogenesis type 2 ?
Answer: Atelosteogenesis type 2 is one of several skeletal disorders caused by mutations in the SLC26A2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is essential for the normal development of cartilage and for its conversion to bone. Cartilage is a tough, flexible tissue that makes up much of the skeleton during early development. Most cartilage is later converted to bone, except for the cartilage that continues to cover and protect the ends of bones and is present in the nose and external ears. Mutations in the SLC26A2 gene disrupt the structure of developing cartilage, preventing bones from forming properly and resulting in the skeletal problems characteristic of atelosteogenesis type 2.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Lupus Nephritis ?
Answer: Lupus nephritis is treated with medications that suppress the immune system, so it stops attacking and damaging the kidneys. Standard treatment includes a corticosteroid, usually prednisone, to reduce inflammation in the kidneys. An immunosuppressive medication, such as cyclophosphamide or mycophenolate mofetil, is typically used with prednisone. These medicationswhen taken as prescribed by a health care providerfurther decrease the activity of the immune system and block the bodys immune cells from attacking the kidneys directly or making antibodies that attack the kidneys. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system to protect the body from foreign substances such as bacteria or viruses. Hydroxychloroquine, a medication for treating SLE, should also be prescribed or continued for people with lupus nephritis.
                
People with lupus nephritis that is causing high blood pressure may need to take medications that lower their blood pressure and can also significantly slow the progression of kidney disease. Two types of blood pressure lowering medications, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), have proven effective in slowing the progression of kidney disease. Many people require two or more medications to control their blood pressure. In addition to an ACE inhibitor or an ARB, a diuretica medication that helps the kidneys remove fluid from the bodymay be prescribed. Beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, and other blood pressure medications may also be needed.
                
Blood pressure is written with two numbers separated by a slash, 120/80, and is said as 120 over 80. The top number is called the systolic pressure and represents the pressure as the heart beats and pushes blood through the blood vessels. The bottom number is called the diastolic pressure and represents the pressure as blood vessels relax between heartbeats. High blood pressure is a systolic pressure of 140 or above or a diastolic pressure of 90 or above.2
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Health Checkup ?
Answer: Regular health exams and tests can help find problems before they start. They also can help find problems early, when your chances for treatment and cure are better. Which exams and screenings you need depends on your age, health and family history, and lifestyle choices such as what you eat, how active you are, and whether you smoke.    To make the most of your next check-up, here are some things to do before you go:       - Review your family health history    - Find out if you are due for any general screenings or vaccinations    - Write down a list of issues and questions to take with you       Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Short limb dwarf lethal Colavita Kozlowski type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Short limb dwarf lethal Colavita Kozlowski type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Short limb dwarf lethal Colavita Kozlowski type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal cortical bone morphology 90% Abnormality of the mandible 90% Bowing of the long bones 90% Advanced eruption of teeth 50% Osteomyelitis 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Recurrent fractures 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Diaphyseal cortical sclerosis - Increased susceptibility to fractures - Osteopenia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Retroperitoneal fibrosis ?
Answer: How might retroperitoneal fibrosis be treated? Treatment of retroperitoneal fibrosis may include: Corticosteroid therapy Tamoxifen Surgery Stents Corticosteroids are tried first. Dosing will be prescribed on a case by case basis, but doses often vary between 30 and 60 mg per day. Corticosteroids are then tapered slowly. Some people with retroperitoneal fibrosis may continue on low dose maintenance therapy for up to 2 years. If corticosteroid treatment doesn't work, a biopsy should be done to confirm the diagnosis. Other medicines to suppress the immune system, such as mycophenolate mofetil, methotrexate, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide or tamoxifen can be prescribed alone or in combination with corticosteroids. When medicine does not work, surgery and stents (draining tubes) are considered. Stents (drainage tubes) placed in the ureter or in the renal pelvis may provide short-term relief of the symptoms until the condition is surgically treated. Surgery aims to remove the mass and/or free the ureters.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Fraser syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Fraser syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cryptophthalmos syndrome  - University of Arizona College of Medicine: Cryptophthalmos   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Muckle-Wells syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Muckle-Wells syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial amyloid nephropathy with urticaria AND deafness   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Unverricht-Lundborg disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Unverricht-Lundborg disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Unverricht-Lundborg disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Absence seizures - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Dysarthria - Generalized tonic-clonic seizures - Mental deterioration - Myoclonus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Kearns-Sayre Syndrome ?
Answer: Kearns-Sayre syndrome (KSS) is a rare neuromuscular disorder with onset usually before the age of 20 years. It is the result of abnormalities in the DNA of mitochondria - small rod-like structures found in every cell of the body that produce the energy that drives cellular functions. The mitochondrial diseases correlate with specific DNA mutations that cause problems with many of the organs and tissues in the body. KSS is characterized by progressive limitation of eye movements until there is complete immobility, accompanied by eyelid droop. It is also associated with abnormal accumulation of pigmented material on the membrane lining the eyes. Additional symptoms may include mild skeletal muscle weakness, heart block (a cardiac conduction defect), short stature, hearing loss, an inability to coordinate voluntary movements (ataxia), impaired cognitive function, and diabetes. Seizures are infrequent. Several endocrine disorders can be associated with KSS.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abdominal pain - Areflexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cachexia - Constipation - Death in early adulthood - Decreased activity of cytochrome C oxidase in muscle tissue - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - Gastrointestinal dysmotility - Gastroparesis - Hypointensity of cerebral white matter on MRI - Intermittent diarrhea - Lactic acidosis - Leukoencephalopathy - Malabsorption - Malnutrition - Mitochondrial myopathy - Multiple mitochondrial DNA deletions - Progressive - Progressive external ophthalmoplegia - Ptosis - Ragged-red muscle fibers - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Subsarcolemmal accumulations of abnormally shaped mitochondria - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Proteus syndrome ?
Answer: Proteus syndrome results from a mutation in the AKT1 gene. This genetic change is not inherited from a parent; it arises randomly in one cell during the early stages of development before birth. As cells continue to grow and divide, some cells will have the mutation and other cells will not. This mixture of cells with and without a genetic mutation is known as mosaicism.  The AKT1 gene helps regulate cell growth and division (proliferation) and cell death. A mutation in this gene disrupts a cell's ability to regulate its own growth, allowing it to grow and divide abnormally. Increased cell proliferation in various tissues and organs leads to the abnormal growth characteristic of Proteus syndrome. Studies suggest that an AKT1 gene mutation is more common in groups of cells that experience overgrowth than in the parts of the body that grow normally.  In some published case reports, mutations in a gene called PTEN have been associated with Proteus syndrome. However, many researchers now believe that individuals with PTEN gene mutations and asymmetric overgrowth do not meet the strict guidelines for a diagnosis of Proteus syndrome. Instead, these individuals actually have condition that is considered part of a larger group of disorders called PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome. One name that has been proposed for the condition is segmental overgrowth, lipomatosis, arteriovenous malformations, and epidermal nevus (SOLAMEN) syndrome; another is type 2 segmental Cowden syndrome. However, some scientific articles still refer to PTEN-related Proteus syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of multiple epiphyseal dysplasia:  - Cedars-Sinai Medical Center  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Multiple Epiphyseal Dysplasia, Dominant  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Multiple Epiphyseal Dysplasia, Recessive  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 6   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is intrauterine growth restriction, metaphyseal dysplasia, adrenal hypoplasia congenita, and genital anomalies inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance of IMAGe syndrome is complex. The condition is described as having an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern because one copy of the altered CDKN1C gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, because this gene is paternally imprinted, IMAGe syndrome results only when the mutation is present on the maternally inherited copy of the gene. When a mutation affects the paternally inherited copy of the CDKN1C gene, it does not cause health problems. Therefore, IMAGe syndrome is passed only from mothers to their children.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Primary carnitine deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is primary carnitine deficiency inherited? Primary carnitine deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Individuals have two copies of each gene, one of which is inherited from each parent. For an individual to have an autosomal recessive condition, he/she must have a mutation in both copies of the disease-causing gene. The parents of an affected individual, who each likely have one mutated copy, are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers for an autosomal recessive condition have children together, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% risk to not have the condition and not be a carrier.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Treacher Collins syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Treacher Collins syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Treacher Collins Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Mandibulofacial dysostosis, Treacher Collins type, autosomal recessive  - Genetic Testing Registry: Treacher Collins syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Treacher collins syndrome 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Treacher collins syndrome 2  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Micrognathia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Pinna Abnormalities and Low-Set Ears  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Treacher-Collins Syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lymph system.    - The main types of lymphoma are Hodgkin lymphoma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.    - There are three major types of childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma.         - Mature B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma     - Lymphoblastic lymphoma     - Anaplastic large cell lymphoma        - Some types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma are rare in children.    - Past treatment for cancer and having a weakened immune system affect the risk of having childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma.    - Signs of childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma include breathing problems and swollen lymph nodes.    - Tests that examine the body and lymph system are used to detect (find) and diagnose childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma.    - A biopsy is done to diagnose childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the lymph system.
                    Childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma is a type of cancer that forms in the lymph system, which is part of the body's immune system. The immune system protects the body from foreign substances, infection, and diseases. The lymph system is made up of the following:         -  Lymph: Colorless, watery fluid that carries white blood cells called lymphocytes through the lymph system. Lymphocytes protect the body against infections and the growth of tumors. There are three types of lymphocytes:               -  B lymphocytes that make antibodies to help fight infection.      -  T lymphocytes that help B lymphocytes make the antibodies that help fight infection.      -  Natural killer cells that attack cancer cells and viruses.             -  Lymph vessels: A network of thin tubes that collect lymph from different parts of the body and return it to the bloodstream.    -  Lymph nodes: Small, bean-shaped structures that filter lymph and store white blood cells that help fight infection and disease. Lymph nodes are located along the network of lymph vessels found throughout the body. Clusters of lymph nodes are found in the neck, underarm, abdomen, pelvis, and groin.     -  Spleen: An organ that makes lymphocytes, filters the blood, stores blood cells, and destroys old blood cells. The spleen is on the left side of the abdomen near the stomach.    -  Thymus: An organ in which lymphocytes grow and multiply. The thymus is in the chest behind the breastbone.    -  Tonsils: Two small masses of lymph tissue at the back of the throat. The tonsils make lymphocytes.    -  Bone marrow: The soft, spongy tissue in the center of large bones. Bone marrow makes white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets.         Non-Hodgkin lymphoma can begin in B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes, or natural killer cells. Lymphocytes can also be found in the blood and collect in the lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus.   Lymph tissue is also found in other parts of the body such as the stomach, thyroid gland, brain, and skin.   Non-Hodgkin lymphoma can occur in both adults and children. Treatment for children is different than treatment for adults. See the following PDQ summaries for information about treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in adults:         -  Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma     -  Primary CNS Lymphoma Treatment     -  Mycosis Fungoides and the Sezary Syndrome Treatment
                
                
                    The main types of lymphoma are Hodgkin lymphoma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
                    Lymphomas are divided into two general types: Hodgkin lymphoma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. This summary is about the treatment of childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma. See the PDQ summary on Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment for information about childhood Hodgkin lymphoma.
                
                
                    There are three major types of childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
                    The type of lymphoma is determined by how the cells look under a microscope. The three major types of childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma are:     Mature B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma    Mature B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas include:            -  Burkitt and Burkitt-like lymphoma/leukemia: Burkitt lymphoma and Burkitt leukemia are different forms of the same disease. Burkitt lymphoma/leukemia is an aggressive (fast-growing) disorder of B lymphocytes that is most common in children and young adults. It may form in the abdomen, Waldeyer's ring, testicles, bone, bone marrow, skin, or central nervous system (CNS). Burkitt leukemia may start in the lymph nodes as Burkitt lymphoma and then spread to the blood and bone marrow, or it may start in the blood and bone marrow without forming in the lymph nodes first. Both Burkitt leukemia and Burkitt lymphoma have been linked to infection with the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), although EBV infection is more likely to occur in patients in Africa than in the United States. Burkitt and Burkitt-like lymphoma/leukemia are diagnosed when a sample of tissue is checked and a certain change to the c-myc gene is found.     -   Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is the most common type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. It is a type of B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that grows quickly in the lymph nodes. The spleen, liver, bone marrow, or other organs are also often affected. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma occurs more often in adolescents than in children.     -   Primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma: A type of lymphoma that develops from B cells in the mediastinum (the area behind the breastbone). It may spread to nearby organs including the lungs and the sac around the heart. It may also spread to lymph nodes and distant organs including the kidneys. In children and adolescents, primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma occurs more often in older adolescents.              Lymphoblastic lymphoma     Lymphoblastic lymphoma is a type of lymphoma that mainly affects T-cell lymphocytes. It usually forms in the mediastinum (the area behind the breastbone). This causes trouble breathing, wheezing, trouble swallowing, or swelling of the head and neck. It may spread to lymph nodes, bone, bone marrow, skin, the CNS, abdominal organs, and other areas. Lymphoblastic lymphoma is a lot like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).       Anaplastic large cell lymphoma     Anaplastic large cell lymphoma is a type of lymphoma that mainly affects T-cell lymphocytes. It usually forms in the lymph nodes, skin, or bone, and sometimes forms in the gastrointestinal tract, lung, tissue that covers the lungs, and muscle. Patients with anaplastic large cell lymphoma have a receptor, called CD30, on the surface of their T cells. In many children, anaplastic large cell lymphoma is marked by changes in the  ALK  gene that makes a protein called anaplastic lymphoma kinase. A pathologist checks for these cell and gene changes to help diagnose anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
                
                
                    Some types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma are rare in children.
                    Some types of childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma are less common. These include:         -  Pediatric-type follicular lymphoma : In children, follicular lymphoma occurs mainly in males. It is more likely to be found in one area and does not spread to other places in the body. It usually forms in the tonsils and lymph nodes in the neck, but may also form in the testicles, kidney, gastrointestinal tract, and salivary gland.    -   Marginal zone lymphoma : Marginal zone lymphoma is a type of lymphoma that tends to grow and spread slowly and is usually found at an early stage. It may be found in the lymph nodes or in areas outside the lymph nodes. Marginal zone lymphoma found outside the lymph nodes in children is called mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma and may be linked to  Helicobacter pylori  infection of the gastrointestinal tract and  Chlamydophila psittaci  infection of the conjunctival membrane which lines the eye.    -   Primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma : Primary CNS lymphoma is extremely rare in children.    -   Peripheral T-cell lymphoma : Peripheral T-cell lymphoma is an aggressive (fast-growing) non-Hodgkin lymphoma that begins in mature T lymphocytes. The T lymphocytes mature in the thymus gland and travel to other parts of the lymph system, such as the lymph nodes, bone marrow, and spleen.    -   Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma : Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma begins in the skin and can cause the skin to thicken or form a tumor. It is very rare in children, but is more common in adolescents and young adults. There are different types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, such as cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma, subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma, gamma-delta T-cell lymphoma, and mycosis fungoides. Mycosis fungoides rarely occurs in children and adolescents.
                
                
                    Past treatment for cancer and having a weakened immune system affect the risk of having childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
                    Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Possible risk factors for childhood non-Hodgkin lymphoma include the following:         - Past treatment for cancer.    - Being infected with the Epstein-Barr virus or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).    - Having a weakened immune system after a transplant or from medicines given after a transplant.    - Having certain inherited diseases of the immune system.        If lymphoma or lymphoproliferative disease is linked to a weakened immune system from certain inherited diseases, HIV infection, a transplant or medicines given after a transplant, the condition is called lymphoproliferative disease associated with immunodeficiency. The different types of lymphoproliferative disease associated with immunodeficiency include:         - Lymphoproliferative disease associated with primary immunodeficiency.    - HIV-associated non-Hodgkin lymphoma.    -  Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the complications of Lupus Nephritis ?
Answer: In many cases, treatment is effective in completely or partially controlling lupus nephritis, resulting in few, if any, further complications. However, even with treatment, 10 to 30 percent of people with lupus nephritis develop kidney failure, described as end-stage renal disease when treated with blood-filtering treatments called dialysis or a kidney transplant.3 Scientists cannot predict who will or will not respond to treatment. The most severe form of lupus nephritis is called diffuse proliferative nephritis. With this type of illness, the kidneys are inflamed, many white blood cells invade the kidneys, and kidney cells increase in number, which can cause such severe damage that scars form in the kidneys. Scars are difficult to treat, and kidney function often declines as more scars form. People with suspected lupus nephritis should get diagnosed and treated as early as possible to prevent such chronic, or long lasting, damage.
                
People with lupus nephritis are at a high risk for cancer, primarily B-cell lymphomaa type of cancer that begins in the cells of the immune system. They are also at a high risk for heart and blood vessel problems.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) intestinal pseudo-obstruction ?
Answer: Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a condition characterized by impairment of the muscle contractions that move food through the digestive tract. The condition may arise from abnormalities of the gastrointestinal muscles themselves (myogenic) or from problems with the nerves that control the muscle contractions (neurogenic).  When intestinal pseudo-obstruction occurs by itself, it is called primary or idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. The disorder can also develop as a complication of another medical condition; in these cases, it is called secondary intestinal pseudo-obstruction.  Intestinal pseudo-obstruction leads to a buildup of partially digested food in the intestines. This buildup can cause abdominal swelling (distention) and pain, nausea, vomiting, and constipation or diarrhea. Affected individuals experience loss of appetite and impaired ability to absorb nutrients, which may lead to malnutrition. These symptoms resemble those of an intestinal blockage (obstruction), but in intestinal pseudo-obstruction no blockage is found.  Some people with intestinal pseudo-obstruction have bladder dysfunction such as an inability to pass urine. Other features of this condition may include decreased muscle tone (hypotonia) or stiffness (spasticity), weakness in the muscles that control eye movement (ophthalmoplegia), intellectual disability, seizures, unusual facial features, or recurrent infections.  Intestinal pseudo-obstruction can occur at any time of life. Its symptoms may range from mild to severe. Some affected individuals may require nutritional support. Depending on the severity of the condition, such support may include nutritional supplements, a feeding tube, or intravenous feedings (parenteral nutrition).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy ?
Answer: Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) is a hereditary disorder that can cause progressive vision loss. This condition affects the retina, the light-sensitive tissue that lines the back of the eye, by preventing blood vessels from forming at the edges of the retina. This reduces the blood supply to retina. The signs and symptoms include vision loss or blindness, retinal detachment, strabismus, and a visible whiteness (leukocoria) in the normally black pupil. The severity of FEVR varies widely, even within the same family. Many people with this condition do not experience any vision problems.FEVR has different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved. Most individuals have the autosomal dominant form of this condition, caused by mutations in the FZD4 or LRP5 gene. FEVR caused by LRP5 gene mutations can also have an autosomal recessive inheritance. When this condition is caused by mutations in the NDP gene, it has an X-linked pattern of inheritance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 12 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 12? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia 12. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of eye movement - Action tremor - Anxiety - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Axial dystonia - Cerebellar atrophy - Cerebral cortical atrophy - Delusions - Dementia - Depression - Dysarthria - Dysdiadochokinesis - Dysmetria - Facial myokymia - Head tremor - Hyperreflexia - Parkinsonism - Progressive cerebellar ataxia - Sensorimotor neuropathy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Kawasaki Disease ?
Answer: Kawasaki (KAH-wah-SAH-ke) disease is a rare childhood disease. It's a form of a condition calledvasculitis(vas-kyu-LI-tis). This condition involves inflammation of the blood vessels.
                
In Kawasaki disease, the walls of the blood vessels throughout the body become inflamed. The disease can affect any type of blood vessel in the body, including the arteries, veins, and capillaries.
                
Sometimes Kawasaki disease affects the coronary arteries, which carry oxygen-rich blood to the heart. As a result, some children who have Kawasaki disease may develop serious heart problems.
                
Overview
                
The cause of Kawasaki disease isn't known. The body's response to a virus or infection combined with genetic factors may cause the disease. However, no specific virus or infection has been found, and the role of genetics isn't known.
                
The disease can't be passed from one child to another. Your child won't get it from close contact with a child who has the disease. Also, if your child has the disease, he or she can't pass it to another child.
                
Kawasaki disease affects children of all races and ages and both genders. It occurs most often in children of Asian and Pacific Island descent. The disease is more likely to affect boys than girls. Most cases occur in children younger than 5years old.
                
One of the main symptoms of Kawasaki disease is a fever that lasts longer than5days. The fever remains high even after treatment with standard childhood fever medicines.
                
Children who have the disease also may have red eyes, red lips, and redness on the palms of their hands and soles of their feet. These are all signs of inflamed blood vessels.
                
Early treatment helps reduce the risk of Kawasaki disease affecting the coronary arteries and causing serious problems.
                
Outlook
                
Kawasaki disease can't be prevented. However, most children who have the disease usually recover within weeks of getting symptoms. Further problems are rare.
                
The disease affects some children's coronary arteries, which can cause serious problems. These children need long-term care and treatment.
                
Researchers continue to look for the cause of Kawasaki disease and better ways to diagnose and treat it. They also hope to learn more about long-term health risks, if any, for people who have had the disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Alopecia, epilepsy, pyorrhea, mental subnormality ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Alopecia, epilepsy, pyorrhea, mental subnormality? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Alopecia, epilepsy, pyorrhea, mental subnormality. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the eyelashes 90% Abnormality of the teeth 90% Alopecia 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 90% EEG abnormality 90% Gingivitis 90% Memory impairment 90% Seizures 50% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Melanocytic nevus 7.5% Alopecia universalis - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Congenital alopecia totalis - Intellectual disability, mild - Periodontitis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens ?
Answer: Mutations in the CFTR gene cause congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens.  More than half of all men with this condition have mutations in the CFTR gene. Mutations in this gene also cause cystic fibrosis. When congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens occurs with CFTR mutations, it is considered a form of atypical cystic fibrosis.  The protein made from the CFTR gene forms a channel that transports negatively charged particles called chloride ions into and out of cells. The flow of chloride ions helps control the movement of water in tissues, which is necessary for the production of thin, freely flowing mucus. Mucus is a slippery substance that lubricates and protects the linings of the airways, digestive system, reproductive system, and other organs and tissues.  Mutations in the CFTR gene disrupt the function of the chloride channels, preventing them from regulating the flow of chloride ions and water across cell membranes. As a result, cells in the male genital tract produce mucus that is abnormally thick and sticky. This mucus clogs the vas deferens as they are forming, causing them to deteriorate before birth.  In instances of congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens without a mutation in the CFTR gene, the cause of this condition is often unknown. Some cases are associated with other structural problems of the urinary tract.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy:  - Be The Match: What is a Bone Marrow Transplant?  - Genetic Testing Registry: T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia and nail dystrophy  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Bone Marrow Transplant   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V ?
Answer: The incidence of distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V is unknown. Only a small number of cases have been reported.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 ?
Answer: More than 100 people have been diagnosed with ARCA1. This condition was first discovered in individuals from the Beauce and Bas-Saint-Laurent regions of Quebec, Canada, but it has since been found in populations worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Hurricanes
Answer: Summary : A hurricane is a severe type of tropical storm. Hurricanes produce high winds, heavy rains and thunderstorms. Hurricanes can cause tremendous damage. Winds can exceed 155 miles per hour. Hurricanes and tropical storms can also spawn tornadoes and lead to flooding. The high winds and heavy rains can destroy buildings, roads and bridges, and knock down power lines and trees. In coastal areas, very high tides called storm surges cause extensive damage.    Although there are no guarantees of safety during a hurricane, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan. Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope.    Federal Emergency Management Agency
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) factor XIII deficiency ?
Answer: Factor XIII deficiency is a rare bleeding disorder. Researchers have identified an inherited form and a less severe form that is acquired during a person's lifetime.  Signs and symptoms of inherited factor XIII deficiency begin soon after birth, usually with abnormal bleeding from the umbilical cord stump. If the condition is not treated, affected individuals may have episodes of excessive and prolonged bleeding that can be life-threatening. Abnormal bleeding can occur after surgery or minor trauma. The condition can also cause spontaneous bleeding into the joints or muscles, leading to pain and disability. Women with inherited factor XIII deficiency tend to have heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding (menorrhagia) and may experience recurrent pregnancy losses (miscarriages). Other signs and symptoms of inherited factor XIII deficiency include nosebleeds, bleeding of the gums, easy bruising, problems with wound healing, and abnormal scar formation. Inherited factor XIII deficiency also increases the risk of spontaneous bleeding inside the skull (intracranial hemorrhage), which is the leading cause of death in people with this condition.  Acquired factor XIII deficiency becomes apparent later in life. People with the acquired form are less likely to have severe or life-threatening episodes of abnormal bleeding than those with the inherited form.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Peyronie's Disease ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing Peyronies disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What causes Sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive ?
Answer: What causes sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive? Sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive is caused by mutations in the SLC25A38 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. Click here to learn more about autosomal recessive inheritance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for chronic granulomatous disease ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of chronic granulomatous disease:  - American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Chronic Granulomatous Disease  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chronic granulomatous disease, X-linked  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chronic granulomatous disease, autosomal recessive cytochrome b-positive, type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chronic granulomatous disease, autosomal recessive cytochrome b-positive, type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chronic granulomatous disease, autosomal recessive cytochrome b-positive, type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Granulomatous disease, chronic, autosomal recessive, cytochrome b-negative  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Chronic Granulomatous Disease  - Primary Immune Deficiency Treatment Consortium   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults ?
Answer: Too much sodium in a person's diet can be harmful because it causes blood to hold fluid. People with CKD need to be careful not to let too much fluid build up in their bodies. The extra fluid raises blood pressure and puts a strain on the heart and kidneys. A dietitian can help people find ways to reduce the amount of sodium in their diet. Nutrition labels provide information about the sodium content in food. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration advises that healthy people should limit their daily sodium intake to no more than 2,300 milligrams (mg), the amount found in 1 teaspoon of table salt. People who are at risk for a heart attack or stroke because of a condition such as high blood pressure or kidney disease should limit their daily sodium intake to no more than 1,500 mg. Choosing sodium-free or low-sodium food products will help them reach that goal.
                
Sodium is found in ordinary table salt and many salty seasonings such as soy sauce and teriyaki sauce. Canned foods, some frozen foods, and most processed meats have large amounts of salt. Snack foods such as chips and crackers are also high in salt.
                
Alternative seasonings such as lemon juice, salt-free seasoning mixes, and hot pepper sauce can help people reduce their salt intake. People with advanced CKD should avoid salt substitutes that use potassium, such as AlsoSalt or Nu-Salt, because CKD limits the body's ability to eliminate potassium from the blood. The table below provides some high-sodium foods and suggestions for low-sodium alternatives that are healthier for people with any level of CKD who have high blood pressure.
                
High- and Low-sodium Foods
                
High-sodium Foods    Low-sodium Alternatives        Salt Regular canned vegetables Hot dogs and canned meat Packaged rice with sauce Packaged noodles with sauce Frozen vegetables with sauce Frozen prepared meals Canned soup Regular tomato sauce Snack foods    Salt-free herb seasonings Low-sodium canned foods Frozen vegetables without sauce Fresh, cooked meat Plain rice without sauce Plain noodles without sauce Fresh vegetables without sauce Homemade soup with fresh ingredients Reduced-sodium tomato sauce Unsalted pretzels Unsalted popcorn
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Rectal Cancer ?
Answer: Other types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Bork Stender Schmidt syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Bork Stender Schmidt syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Bork Stender Schmidt syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Cataract 90% Reduced number of teeth 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hypospadias - Increased number of teeth - Juvenile cataract - Microdontia - Oligodontia - Pili canaliculi - Rod-cone dystrophy - Short metacarpal - Short proximal phalanx of finger - Short toe - Uncombable hair - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of TAR syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of TAR syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for TAR syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Bilateral radial aplasia 100% Abnormality of coagulation 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the ulna 90% Thrombocytopenia 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 75% Cow milk allergy 75% Coxa valga 75% Eosinophilia 75% Genu varum 75% Hip dislocation 75% Patellar aplasia 75% Abnormality of the intestine 50% Adducted thumb 50% Aplasia/hypoplasia of the humerus 50% Broad forehead 50% Broad thumb 50% High forehead 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Patellar dislocation 50% Death in infancy 40% Anemia 33% Abnormal localization of kidney 7.5% Abnormality of the cardiac septa 7.5% Abnormality of the shoulder 7.5% Carpal bone hypoplasia 7.5% Cavum septum pellucidum 7.5% Cerebellar hypoplasia 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Delayed CNS myelination 7.5% Edema of the dorsum of feet 7.5% Edema of the dorsum of hands 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Hepatosplenomegaly 7.5% Lateral clavicle hook 7.5% Malar flattening 7.5% Nevus flammeus of the forehead 7.5% Phocomelia 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Sensorineural hearing impairment 7.5% Short phalanx of finger 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Talipes equinovarus 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Tibial torsion 7.5% Short stature 7% Aplasia of the uterus 5% Axial malrotation of the kidney 5% Cervical ribs 5% Coarctation of aorta 5% Fibular aplasia 5% Fused cervical vertebrae 5% Anteverted nares - Atria septal defect - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Brachycephaly - Carpal synostosis - Decreased antibody level in blood - Horseshoe kidney - Meckel diverticulum - Motor delay - Pancreatic cysts - Seborrheic dermatitis - Seizures - Shoulder muscle hypoplasia - Spina bifida - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Febrile Ulceronecrotic Mucha-Habermann disease ?
Answer: Febrile ulceronecrotic Mucha-Habermann disease (FUMHD) is a rare and severe form of pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA). PLEVA is characterized by skin lesions that ulcerate, breakdown, form open sores, then form a red-brown crust. FUMHD often begins as PLEVA, but then rapidly and suddenly progresses to large, destructive ulcers. There may be fever and extensive, painful loss of skin tissue as well as secondary infection of the ulcers. Diagnosis of FUMHD is confirmed by biopsy of skin lesions. FUMHD occurs more frequently in children, peaking at age 5 to 10. Males tend to be affected more often than females. While some cases of FUMHD have resolved without therapy, others have resulted in death. Early diagnosis and prompt treatment may help to reduce morbidity and death.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Nodular nonsuppurative panniculitis ?
Answer: Nodular nonsuppurative panniculitis describes a rare group of skin disorders characterized by tender, painful bumps below the surface of the skin (subcutaneous nodules) that usually lead to inflammation of the subcutaneous layer of fat (panniculitis). These nodules tend to be 1-2 centimeters in length and most often affect the legs and feet. In most people, this condition is associated with fever, a general feeling of ill health (malaise), muscle pain, and/or abdominal pain. These symptoms may subside after a few days or weeks and may recur weeks, months, or years later. The exact cause of nodular nonsuppurative panniculitis is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for hepatic veno-occlusive disease with immunodeficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of VODI:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hepatic Veno-Occlusive Disease with Immunodeficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hepatic venoocclusive disease with immunodeficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Ornithine translocase deficiency syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Ornithine translocase deficiency syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ornithine translocase deficiency syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Intellectual disability 30% Chorioretinal atrophy 1% Abnormal pyramidal signs - Acute encephalopathy - Acute hepatitis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebral cortical atrophy - Clonus - Coma - Decreased liver function - Decreased nerve conduction velocity - Episodic vomiting - Failure to thrive - Generalized myoclonic seizures - Hepatomegaly - Hyperammonemia - Hyperornithinemia - Hypopigmentation of the fundus - Lethargy - Morphological abnormality of the pyramidal tract - Muscular hypotonia - Phenotypic variability - Poor coordination - Protein avoidance - Spastic paraparesis - Specific learning disability - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Opitz G/BBB syndrome ?
Answer: Opitz G/BBB syndrome is a genetic condition that causes several abnormalities along the midline of the body. "G/BBB" represents the first letters of the last names of the families first diagnosed with this disorder and "Opitz" is the last name of the doctor who first described the signs and symptoms. There are two forms of Opitz G/BBB syndrome, X-linked Opitz G/BBB syndrome and autosomal dominant Opitz G/BBB syndrome. The two forms are distinguished by their genetic causes and patterns of inheritance. The signs and symptoms of the two forms are generally the same.  Nearly everyone with Opitz G/BBB syndrome has wide-spaced eyes (ocular hypertelorism). Affected individuals commonly have defects of the voice box (larynx), windpipe (trachea), or esophagus. These throat abnormalities can cause difficulty swallowing or breathing, in some cases resulting in recurrent pneumonia or life-threatening breathing problems. A common defect is a gap between the trachea and esophagus (laryngeal cleft) that allows food or fluids to enter the airway. The cleft can vary in size, and infants may struggle to breathe when feeding. Most males with Opitz G/BBB syndrome have genital abnormalities such as the urethra opening on the underside of the penis (hypospadias), undescended testes (cryptorchidism), an underdeveloped scrotum, or a scrotum divided into two lobes (bifid scrotum). These genital abnormalities can lead to problems in the urinary tract.  Mild intellectual disability and developmental delay occur in about 50 percent of people with Opitz G/BBB syndrome. Affected individuals have delayed motor skills, such as walking, speech delay, and learning difficulties. Some people with Opitz G/BBB syndrome have features of autistic spectrum disorders, which are characterized by impaired communication and socialization skills. About half of affected individuals also have an opening in the lip (cleft lip) with or without an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate). Some have cleft palate without cleft lip. Less common features of Opitz G/BBB syndrome, affecting less than half of people with this disorder, include minor heart defects, an obstruction of the anal opening (imperforate anus), and brain defects such as a small or absent connection between the left and right halves of the brain (corpus callosum). Distinct facial features that may be seen in this disorder include a prominent forehead, widow's peak hairline, flat nasal bridge, thin upper lip, and low-set ears. These features vary among affected individuals, even within the same family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Surviving Cancer ?
Answer: Certain kinds of chemotherapy and medicines contribute to weight gain. Unfortunately, the usual ways people try to lose weight may not work. Ask your doctor about talking with a nutritionist who can help you plan a healthy diet, and about doing exercises that can help you regain muscle tone.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Hemochromatosis type 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hemochromatosis type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hemochromatosis type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal glucose tolerance - Alopecia - Amenorrhea - Arrhythmia - Arthropathy - Ascites - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Azoospermia - Cardiomegaly - Cardiomyopathy - Cirrhosis - Congestive heart failure - Diabetes mellitus - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Hepatocellular carcinoma - Hepatomegaly - Hyperpigmentation of the skin - Hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism - Impotence - Increased serum ferritin - Increased serum iron - Osteoporosis - Pleural effusion - Splenomegaly - Telangiectasia - Testicular atrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Langer mesomelic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Langer mesomelic dysplasia has a pseudoautosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. The SHOX gene is located on both the X and Y chromosomes (sex chromosomes) in an area known as the pseudoautosomal region. Although many genes are unique to either the X or Y chromosome, genes in the pseudoautosomal region are present on both sex chromosomes. As a result, both females (who have two X chromosomes) and males (who have one X and one Y chromosome) normally have two functional copies of the SHOX gene in each cell. The inheritance pattern of Langer mesomelic dysplasia is described as recessive because both copies of the SHOX gene in each cell must be missing or altered to cause the disorder. In females, the condition results when the gene is missing or altered on both copies of the X chromosome; in males, it results when the gene is missing or altered on the X chromosome and the Y chromosome.  A related skeletal disorder called Lri-Weill dyschondrosteosis occurs when one copy of the SHOX gene is mutated in each cell. This disorder has signs and symptoms that are similar to, but typically less severe than, those of Langer mesomelic dysplasia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Pseudoxanthoma elasticum ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pseudoxanthoma elasticum? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pseudoxanthoma elasticum. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of coagulation 90% Chorioretinal abnormality 90% Retinopathy 90% Skin rash 90% Thickened nuchal skin fold 90% Visual impairment 90% Bruising susceptibility 50% Myopia 50% Striae distensae 50% Abnormality of the endocardium 7.5% Abnormality of the mitral valve 7.5% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% Abnormality of the thorax 7.5% Abnormality of thrombocytes 7.5% Acne 7.5% Aneurysm 7.5% Blue sclerae 7.5% Cerebral calcification 7.5% Chondrocalcinosis 7.5% Coronary artery disease 7.5% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 7.5% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 7.5% Hyperextensible skin 7.5% Hypertension 7.5% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Intracranial hemorrhage 7.5% Joint hypermobility 7.5% Multiple lipomas 7.5% Nephrocalcinosis 7.5% Pruritus 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% Telangiectasia of the skin 7.5% Renovascular hypertension 5% Abnormality of the mouth - Accelerated atherosclerosis - Angina pectoris - Angioid streaks of the retina - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congestive heart failure - Hypermelanotic macule - Intermittent claudication - Macular degeneration - Mitral stenosis - Mitral valve prolapse - Reduced visual acuity - Renal insufficiency - Restrictive cardiomyopathy - Retinal hemorrhage - Stroke - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Spastic diplegia cerebral palsy ?
Answer: How might spastic diplegia cerebral palsy be treated? Treatment of spastic diplegia cerebral palsy varies based on the signs and symptoms present in each person and the severity of the condition. Affected people are often cared for by a team of healthcare providers who specialize in a variety of different medical fields (i.e. neurologists, rehabilitation physicians, social workers, physical therapists, etc). Orthotic devices (such as a walker, wheelchair or leg braces), physical therapy, and occupational therapy can help improve independent mobility. Certain medications may be prescribed to relax stiff, contracted, or overactive muscles. Orthopedic surgery is often recommended for severely affected people who have symptoms that make walking and moving difficult or painful. For more information on the treatment of spastic diplegia cerebral palsy and other forms of cerebral palsy, please click here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) CADASIL ?
Answer: CADASIL (Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Sub-cortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy) is an inherited disease of the blood vessels that occurs when the thickening of blood vessel walls blocks the flow of blood to the brain. The disease primarily affects the small blood vessels in the white matter of the brain. CADASIL is characterized by migraine headaches and multiple strokes, which progresses to dementia. Other symptoms include white matter lesions throughout the brain, cognitive deterioration, seizures, vision problems, and psychiatric problems such as severe depression and changes in behavior and personality. Individuals may also be at higher risk of heart attack. Symptoms and disease onset vary widely, with signs typically appearing in the mid-30s. Some individuals may not show signs of the disease until later in life. CADASIL is caused by a change (or mutation) in a gene called NOTCH3 and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) dihydropyrimidinase deficiency ?
Answer: Dihydropyrimidinase deficiency is a disorder that can cause neurological and gastrointestinal problems in some affected individuals. Other people with dihydropyrimidinase deficiency have no signs or symptoms related to the disorder, and in these individuals the condition can be diagnosed only by laboratory testing.  The neurological abnormalities that occur most often in people with dihydropyrimidinase deficiency are intellectual disability, seizures, and weak muscle tone (hypotonia). An abnormally small head size (microcephaly) and autistic behaviors that affect communication and social interaction also occur in some individuals with this condition.  Gastrointestinal problems that occur in dihydropyrimidinase deficiency include backflow of acidic stomach contents into the esophagus (gastroesophageal reflux) and recurrent episodes of vomiting (cyclic vomiting). Affected individuals can also have deterioration (atrophy) of the small, finger-like projections (villi) that line the small intestine and provide a large surface area with which to absorb nutrients. This condition, called villous atrophy, can lead to difficulty absorbing nutrients from foods (malabsorption), resulting in a failure to grow and gain weight at the expected rate (failure to thrive).  People with dihydropyrimidinase deficiency, including those who otherwise exhibit no symptoms, may be vulnerable to severe, potentially life-threatening toxic reactions to certain drugs called fluoropyrimidines that are used to treat cancer. Common examples of these drugs are 5-fluorouracil and capecitabine. These drugs may not be broken down efficiently and can build up to toxic levels in the body (fluoropyrimidine toxicity), leading to drug reactions including gastrointestinal problems, blood abnormalities, and other signs and symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Simple Kidney Cysts ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing simple kidney cysts.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is central core disease inherited ?
Answer: Central core disease is most often inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, central core disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. People who carry one mutated copy of the RYR1 gene, however, may be at increased risk for malignant hyperthermia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Bardet-Biedl syndrome 5 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Bardet-Biedl syndrome 5? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Bardet-Biedl syndrome 5. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the kidney 95% Micropenis 88% Myopia 75% Astigmatism 63% Cataract 30% Glaucoma 22% Rod-cone dystrophy 8% Abnormality of the ovary 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Vaginal atresia 7.5% Aganglionic megacolon 5% Asthma - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Biliary tract abnormality - Brachydactyly syndrome - Broad foot - Congenital primary aphakia - Decreased testicular size - Delayed speech and language development - Dental crowding - Diabetes mellitus - Foot polydactyly - Gait imbalance - Hepatic fibrosis - High palate - Hirsutism - Hypertension - Hypodontia - Hypogonadism - Intellectual disability - Left ventricular hypertrophy - Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus - Neurological speech impairment - Nystagmus - Obesity - Poor coordination - Postaxial hand polydactyly - Radial deviation of finger - Retinal degeneration - Short foot - Specific learning disability - Strabismus - Syndactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Blau syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Blau syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most affected individuals have one parent with the condition.  In some cases, people with the characteristic features of Blau syndrome do not have a family history of the condition. Some researchers believe that these individuals have a non-inherited version of the disorder called early-onset sarcoidosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Osteogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: What causes osteogenesis imperfecta? Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) may be caused by changes (mutations) in any of several genes. OI is most commonly due to a mutation in either the COL1A1 or COL1A2 gene, causing OI types I through IV. These genes play a role in how the body makes collagen, a material that helps to strengthen the bones. The type and severity of OI depends on the effect that the specific mutation has on normal collagen production. OI caused by mutations in these genes is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In about 10% of people with OI, the COL1A1 and COL1A2 genes are normal and the condition is due to mutations in other genes; many of these people have an autosomal recessive form of OI. Other genes in which mutations may be responsible for less common types of OI, some of which have been reported in only one individual or family, include: IFITM5 (type V) SERPINF1 (type VI) CRTAP (type VII) LEPRE1, also called P3H1 (type VIII) PPIB (type IX) SERPINH1 (type X) FKBP10 (type XI) SP7 (type XII) BMP1 (type XIII) TMEM38B (type XIV) WNT1 (type XV) SPARC (type XVII)
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes McCune Albright syndrome ?
Answer: What causes McCune Albright syndrome? McCune Albright syndrome (MAS) is caused by a change (mutation) in the GNAS gene. This gene provides instructions for making part of a protein that ultimately influences many cell functions by regulating hormone activity. GNAS gene mutations that cause MAS result in a protein that causes the enzyme adenylate cyclase to be constantly turned on. This, in turn, leads to over-production of several hormones, resulting in the signs and symptoms of MAS.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Dumping Syndrome ?
Answer: The symptoms of early and late dumping syndrome are different and vary from person to person. Early dumping syndrome symptoms may include
                
- nausea  - vomiting  - abdominal pain and cramping  - diarrhea  - feeling uncomfortably full or bloated after a meal  - sweating  - weakness  - dizziness  - flushing, or blushing of the face or skin  - rapid or irregular heartbeat
                
- hypoglycemia  - sweating  - weakness  - rapid or irregular heartbeat  - flushing  - dizziness
                
About 75 percent of people with dumping syndrome report symptoms of early dumping syndrome and about 25 percent report symptoms of late dumping syndrome. Some people have symptoms of both types of dumping syndrome.1
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Diabetic Kidney Problems ?
Answer: If you have diabetes, your blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels are too high. Over time, this can damage your kidneys. Your kidneys clean your blood. If they are damaged, waste and fluids build up in your blood instead of leaving your body.    Kidney damage from diabetes is called diabetic nephropathy. It begins long before you have symptoms. An early sign of it is small amounts of protein in your urine. A urine test can detect it. A blood test can also help determine how well your kidneys are working.    If the damage continues, your kidneys could fail. In fact, diabetes is the most common cause of kidney failure in the United States. People with kidney failure need either dialysis or a kidney transplant.    You can slow down kidney damage or keep it from getting worse. Controlling your blood sugar and blood pressure, taking your medicines and not eating too much protein can help.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Urinary Incontinence in Men ?
Answer: The urinary tract is the bodys drainage system for removing urine, which is composed of wastes and extra fluid. In order for normal urination to occur, all parts in the urinary tract need to work together in the correct order.
                
Kidneys. The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They are located just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine. Every day, the kidneys filter about 120 to 150 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine. The kidneys work around the clock; a person does not control what they do.
                
Ureters. Ureters are the thin tubes of muscleone on each side of the bladderthat carry urine from each of the kidneys to the bladder.
                
Bladder. The bladder, located in the pelvis between the pelvic bones, is a hollow, muscular, balloon-shaped organ that expands as it fills with urine. Although a person does not control kidney function, a person does control when the bladder empties. Bladder emptying is known as urination. The bladder stores urine until the person finds an appropriate time and place to urinate. A normal bladder acts like a reservoir and can hold 1.5 to 2 cups of urine. How often a person needs to urinate depends on how quickly the kidneys produce the urine that fills the bladder. The muscles of the bladder wall remain relaxed while the bladder fills with urine. As the bladder fills to capacity, signals sent to the brain tell a person to find a toilet soon. During urination, the bladder empties through the urethra, located at the bottom of the bladder.
                
Three sets of muscles work together like a dam, keeping urine in the bladder between trips to the bathroom.
                
The first set is the muscles of the urethra itself. The area where the urethra joins the bladder is the bladder neck. The bladder neck, composed of the second set of muscles known as the internal sphincter, helps urine stay in the bladder. The third set of muscles is the pelvic floor muscles, also referred to as the external sphincter, which surround and support the urethra.
                
To urinate, the brain signals the muscular bladder wall to tighten, squeezing urine out of the bladder. At the same time, the brain signals the sphincters to relax. As the sphincters relax, urine exits the bladder through the urethra.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIID ?
Answer: Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIID (MPS IIID) is an genetic disorder that makes the body unable to break down large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs, formerly called mucopolysaccharides). Specifically, people with this condition are unable to break down a GAG called heparan sulfate. Affected individuals can have severe neurological symptoms, including progressive dementia, aggressive behavior, hyperactivity, seizures, deafness, loss of vision, and an inability to sleep for more than a few hours at a time. MPS IIID is caused by the missing or deficient enzyme N-acetylglucosamine 6-sulfatase. MPS IIID is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. There is no specific treatment for this condition. Most people with MPS IIID live into their teenage years, and some live longer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Alopecia universalis ?
Answer: How is alopecia universalis diagnosed? A diagnosis of alopecia universalis is usually based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. In rare cases, a scalp biopsy may be needed to confirm the diagnosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Deficiency of steroid 11-beta-monooxygenase  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Microphthalmia associated with colobomatous cyst ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Microphthalmia associated with colobomatous cyst? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Microphthalmia associated with colobomatous cyst. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Microphthalmia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to X-linked lymphoproliferative disease ?
Answer: Mutations in the SH2D1A and XIAP genes cause XLP. SH2D1A gene mutations cause XLP1, and XIAP gene mutations cause XLP2.  The SH2D1A gene provides instructions for making a protein called signaling lymphocyte activation molecule (SLAM) associated protein (SAP). This protein is involved in the functioning of lymphocytes that destroy other cells (cytotoxic lymphocytes) and is necessary for the development of specialized T cells called natural killer T cells. The SAP protein also helps control immune reactions by triggering self-destruction (apoptosis) of cytotoxic lymphocytes when they are no longer needed.  Some SH2D1A gene mutations impair SAP function. Others result in an abnormally short protein that is unstable or nonfunctional, or prevent any SAP from being produced. The loss of functional SAP disrupts proper signaling in the immune system and may prevent the body from controlling the immune reaction to EBV infection. In addition, lymphomas may develop when defective lymphocytes are not properly destroyed by apoptosis.  The XIAP gene provides instructions for making a protein that helps protect cells from undergoing apoptosis in response to certain signals. XIAP gene mutations can lead to an absence of XIAP protein or decrease the amount of XIAP protein that is produced. It is unknown how a lack of XIAP protein results in the signs and symptoms of XLP, or why features of this disorder differ somewhat between people with XIAP and SH2D1A gene mutations.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to achromatopsia ?
Answer: Achromatopsia results from changes in one of several genes: CNGA3, CNGB3, GNAT2, PDE6C, or PDE6H. A particular CNGB3 gene mutation underlies the condition in Pingelapese islanders.  Achromatopsia is a disorder of the retina, which is the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye. The retina contains two types of light receptor cells, called rods and cones. These cells transmit visual signals from the eye to the brain through a process called phototransduction. Rods provide vision in low light (night vision). Cones provide vision in bright light (daylight vision), including color vision.  Mutations in any of the genes listed above prevent cones from reacting appropriately to light, which interferes with phototransduction. In people with complete achromatopsia, cones are nonfunctional, and vision depends entirely on the activity of rods. The loss of cone function leads to a total lack of color vision and causes the other vision problems. People with incomplete achromatopsia retain some cone function. These individuals have limited color vision, and their other vision problems tend to be less severe.  Some people with achromatopsia do not have identified mutations in any of the known genes. In these individuals, the cause of the disorder is unknown. Other genetic factors that have not been identified likely contribute to this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia ?
Answer: VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia is an inherited condition that affects the development of the brain. People with this condition have an unusually small and underdeveloped cerebellum, which is the part of the brain that coordinates movement. This brain malformation leads to problems with balance and coordination (ataxia) that become apparent in infancy and remain stable over time. Children with VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia may learn to walk later in childhood, usually after the age of 6, although some are never able to walk independently. In one Turkish family, affected people walk on their hands and feet (quadrupedal locomotion).  Additional features of VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia include moderate to profound intellectual disability, impaired speech (dysarthria) or a lack of speech, and eyes that do not look in the same direction (strabismus). Some affected individuals have also had flat feet (pes planus), seizures, and short stature. Studies suggest that VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia does not significantly affect a person's life expectancy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Rhizomelic dysplasia Patterson Lowry type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Rhizomelic dysplasia Patterson Lowry type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Rhizomelic dysplasia Patterson Lowry type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Abnormality of the humerus 90% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Depressed nasal ridge 90% Deviation of finger 90% Epicanthus 90% Genu valgum 90% Hyperlordosis 90% Large face 90% Limb undergrowth 90% Malar flattening 90% Mandibular prognathia 90% Short nose 90% Coxa vara - Deformed humeral heads - Platyspondyly - Rhizomelia - Short humerus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis ?
Answer: Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is a progressive neurological disorder of children and young adults that affects the central nervous system (CNS). It is a slow, but persistent, viral infection caused by defective measles virus. SSPE has been reported from all parts of the world, but it is considered a rare disease in developed countries, with fewer than 10 cases per year reported in the United States. The incidence of SSPE declined by at least 90 percent in countries that have practiced widespread immunization with measles vaccine. The incidence of SSPE is still high in developing countries such as India and Eastern Europe. There is a higher incidence among males than females (male/female: 3/1). Most youngsters with SSPE have a history of measles infection at an early age, usually younger than 2 years, followed by a latent period of 6 to 8 years before neurological symptoms begin. Despite the long interval between the measles infection and the onset of SSPE, researchers think that the infection of the brain occurs soon after the primary bout with measles and progresses slowly. Why it persists and progresses still isn't clear. The initial symptoms of SSPE are subtle and include mild mental deterioration (such as memory loss) and changes in behavior (such as irritability) followed by disturbances in motor function, including uncontrollable involuntary jerking movements of the head, trunk or limbs called myoclonic jerks. Seizures may also occur. Some people may become blind. In advanced stages of the disease, individuals may lose the ability to walk, as their muscles stiffen or spasm. There is progressive deterioration to a comatose state, and then to a persistent vegetative state. Death is usually the result of fever, heart failure, or the brain's inability to continue controlling the autonomic nervous system.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Nephrolithiasis 5% Peptic ulcer 5% Chondrocalcinosis - Hypercalcemia - Hypermagnesemia - Hypocalciuria - Multiple lipomas - Pancreatitis - Parathormone-independent increased renal tubular calcium reabsorption - Primary hyperparathyroidism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by 9q22.3 microdeletion ?
Answer: 9q22.3 microdeletion appears to be a rare chromosomal change. About three dozen affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Spinal intradural arachnoid cysts ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spinal intradural arachnoid cysts? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinal intradural arachnoid cysts. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the vertebral column - Arachnoid cyst - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Paraplegia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is mitochondrial complex III deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Mitochondrial complex III deficiency is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In some cases caused by mutations in the MT-CYB gene, the condition is not inherited; it is caused by new mutations in the gene that occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. Other cases caused by mutations in the MT-CYB gene are inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Septo-optic dysplasia ?
Answer: Can septo-optic dysplasia be cured? There is no cure for septo-optic dysplasia. Treatment is symptomatic. Hormone deficiencies may be treated with hormone replacement therapy. The optical problems are generally not treatable. Vision, physical, and occupational therapies may be required.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Ataxia - hypogonadism - choroidal dystrophy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Ataxia - hypogonadism - choroidal dystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ataxia - hypogonadism - choroidal dystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 90% Abnormality of the genital system 90% Incoordination 90% Abnormal upper motor neuron morphology 5% Spasticity 5% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Areflexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Chorioretinal dystrophy - Distal amyotrophy - Hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism - Hyporeflexia - Intention tremor - Juvenile onset - Photophobia - Progressive - Progressive visual loss - Retinal dystrophy - Scanning speech - Spinocerebellar atrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of IBIDS syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of IBIDS syndrome? The most common symptoms of Tay syndrome are brittle hair (trichothiodystrophy); dry, thickened, scaling skin (ichthyosis); photosensitivity (abnormal light sensitivity); abnormal nails; and multiple developmental defects. Other features include: low birth weight, short stature, mental retardation, delayed neuromuscular development and other central nervous system anomalies, dysplasia of nails, hypoplasia of subcutaneous fatty tissue, prematurely-aged facial appearance, hypogonadism, cataracts, osteosclerosis (abnormal increase in density and hardness of the bone), dysphonia, and increased susceptibility to infections. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for IBIDS syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the face - Abnormality of the thorax - Asthma - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Brittle hair - Cataract - Congenital nonbullous ichthyosiform erythroderma - Cutaneous photosensitivity - Flexion contracture - Fragile nails - Hypogonadism - IgG deficiency - Intellectual disability - Intestinal obstruction - Lack of subcutaneous fatty tissue - Microcephaly - Recurrent infections - Short stature - Small for gestational age - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is pilomatricoma inherited ?
Answer: Most people with isolated pilomatricoma do not have any other affected family members. However, rare families with multiple affected members have been reported. In these cases, the inheritance pattern of the condition (if any) is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Tetanus ?
Answer: Tetanus is a serious illness caused by Clostridium bacteria. The bacteria live in soil, saliva, dust, and manure. The bacteria can enter the body through a deep cut, like those you might get from stepping on a nail, or through a burn.    The infection causes painful tightening of the muscles, usually all over the body. It can lead to "locking" of the jaw. This makes it impossible to open your mouth or swallow. Tetanus is a medical emergency. You need to get treatment in a hospital.    A vaccine can prevent tetanus. It is given as a part of routine childhood immunization. Adults should get a tetanus shot, or booster, every 10 years. If you get a bad cut or burn, see your doctor - you may need a booster. Immediate and proper wound care can prevent tetanus infection.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Chandler's syndrome ?
Answer: How might Chandler's syndrome be treated? While it is not possible to halt the progression of Chandler's syndrome, the glaucoma associated with this disease can be treated with medications and/or filtering surgery. Eye drops used in managing glaucoma decrease pressure in the eye by helping the eye's fluid drain more efficiently and/or decreasing the amount of fluid made by the eye. Drugs used to treat glaucoma are classified according to their active ingredient. These include prostaglandin analogs, beta blockers, alpha agonists, and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. Combination drugs may be necessary for some patients. If these medications do not successfully treat the glaucoma, surgery may be indicated. Trabeculectomy may be used to treat glaucoma. In some cases, multiple procedures may be necessary. The corneal swelling associated with Chandler's syndrome may be treated through a cornea transplant. Further investigation is needed to determine the best way to manage this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Solitary Kidney ?
Answer: - When a person has only one kidney or one working kidney, this kidney is called a solitary kidney. The three main causes of a solitary kidney are birth defects, surgical removal of a kidney, and kidney donation.  - In general, people with a solitary kidney lead full, healthy lives. However, some people are more likely to develop kidney disease.  - People with a solitary kidney should be tested regularly for the following signs of kidney damage:      - albuminuria    - decreased glomerular filtration rate (GFR)    - high blood pressure    - People with a solitary kidney can protect their health by eating a nutritious diet, keeping their blood pressure at the appropriate level, and preventing injury to the working kidney.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is autosomal recessive congenital stationary night blindness inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Pervasive Developmental Disorders ?
Answer: There is no known cure for PDD. Medications are used to address specific behavioral problems; therapy for children with PDD should be specialized according to need. Some children with PDD benefit from specialized classrooms in which the class size is small and instruction is given on a one-to-one basis. Others function well in standard special education classes or regular classes with additional support.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is erythrokeratodermia variabilis et progressiva inherited ?
Answer: EKVP is most often inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new gene mutations and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  A few studies have suggested that EKVP can also have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. However, this inheritance pattern has only been reported in a small number of affected families, and not all researchers agree that it is truly autosomal recessive. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Alkhurma Hemorrhagic Fever (AHF) ?
Answer: Clinical diagnosis could be difficult due to similarities between AVHF, Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic fever (CCHF), and Rift Valley fever (RVF), which occur in similar geographic areas. Laboratory diagnosis of AHF can be made in the early stage of the illness by molecular detection by PCR or virus isolation from blood. Later, serologic testing using enzyme-linked immunosorbent serologic assay (ELISA) can be performed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What is (are) microvillus inclusion disease ?
Answer: Microvillus inclusion disease is a condition characterized by chronic, watery, life-threatening diarrhea typically beginning in the first hours to days of life. Rarely, the diarrhea starts around age 3 or 4 months. Food intake increases the frequency of diarrhea.  Microvillus inclusion disease prevents the absorption of nutrients from food during digestion, resulting in malnutrition and dehydration. Affected infants often have difficulty gaining weight and growing at the expected rate (failure to thrive), developmental delay, liver and kidney problems, and thinning of the bones (osteoporosis). Some affected individuals develop cholestasis, which is a reduced ability to produce and release a digestive fluid called bile. Cholestasis leads to irreversible liver disease (cirrhosis).  In individuals with microvillus inclusion disease, lifelong nutritional support is needed and given through intravenous feedings (parenteral nutrition). Even with nutritional supplementation, most children with microvillus inclusion disease do not survive beyond childhood.  A variant of microvillus inclusion disease with milder diarrhea often does not require full-time parenteral nutrition. Individuals with the variant type frequently live past childhood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Myhre syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Myhre syndrome inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Loeys-Dietz syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Loeys-Dietz syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Loeys-Dietz Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Loeys-Dietz syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Loeys-Dietz syndrome 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Loeys-Dietz syndrome 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Loeys-Dietz syndrome 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Loeys-Dietz syndrome 4  - Johns Hopkins Medicine: Diagnosis of Craniosynostosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Aortic Dissection  - National Heart Lung and Blood Institute: How Is an Aneurysm Treated?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Neurosyphilis ?
Answer: Prognosis can change based on the type of neurosyphilis and how early in the course of the disease people with neurosyphilis get diagnosed and treated. Individuals with asymptomatic neurosyphilis or meningeal neurosyphilis usually return to normal health. People with meningovascular syphilis, general paresis, or tabes dorsalis usually do not return to normal health, although they may get much better. Individuals who receive treatment many years after they have been infected have a worse prognosis. Treatment outcome is different for every person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Mild Cognitive Impairment ?
Answer: Some forgetfulness can be a normal part of aging. However, some people have more memory problems than other people their age. This condition is called mild cognitive impairment, or MCI. People with MCI can take care of themselves and do their normal activities.    MCI memory problems may include       - Losing things often    - Forgetting to go to events and appointments    - Having more trouble coming up with words than other people of the same age       Memory problems can also have other causes, including certain medicines and diseases that affect the blood vessels that supply the brain. Some of the problems brought on by these conditions can be managed or reversed.    Your health care provider can do thinking, memory, and language tests to see if you have MCI. You may also need to see a specialist for more tests. Because MCI may be an early sign of Alzheimer's disease, it's really important to see your health care provider every 6 to 12 months.    At this time, there is no proven drug treatment for MCI. Your health care provider can check to see if you have any changes in your memory or thinking skills over time.    NIH: National Institute on Aging
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Amino aciduria with mental deficiency, dwarfism, muscular dystrophy, osteoporosis and acidosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Amino aciduria with mental deficiency, dwarfism, muscular dystrophy, osteoporosis and acidosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Amino aciduria with mental deficiency, dwarfism, muscular dystrophy, osteoporosis and acidosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acidosis - Aminoaciduria - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Intellectual disability - Muscular dystrophy - Osteoporosis - Severe short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by bradyopsia ?
Answer: Bradyopsia appears to be rare. Only a few affected individuals worldwide have been described in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Congenital anosmia ?
Answer: How is congenital anosmia diagnosed? Isolated congenital anosmia (not associated with other symptoms) is a diagnosis of exclusion. This means that the diagnosis is made in people with suspicious signs and symptoms once other conditions that cause similar features have been ruled out. When an affected person has no recollection of ever being able to smell, the following tests may be ordered to support a diagnosis of congenital anosmia: A thorough physical examination and medical history to look for other conditions that may interfere with the sense of smell Smell tests, particularly those that determine the smallest amount of odor that someone can detect Brain Imaging (such as CT scan and MRI scan) as some people with congenital anosmia have malformations in the portion of the brian that processes smells Nasal endoscopy to look for abnormalities of the nasal cavity which may interfere with sense of smell Olfactory nerve testing to evaluate disruptions in the pathway that carries information from the nose to the brain
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia ?
Answer: How might florid cemento-osseous dysplasia be treated? In many cases florid cemento-osseous dysplasia does not require treatment, however careful follow-up may be warranted. When the condition causes discomfort, pain, or disfigurement, the treatment plan is tailored to the patient. The following article describes the treatment of florid cemento-osseous dysplasia in one patient. We recommend that you speak with your dentist to learn more about your treatment options and for referrals to local specialists. Minhas G, Hodge T, Gill DS. Orthodontic treatment and cemento-osseous dysplasia: a case report. J Orthod. 2008 Jun;35(2):90-5. You can also use the following tools to help you find specialists in your area. The Academy of General Dentistry has a tool for finding member dentists in your area.  http://www.knowyourteeth.com/findadentist/ The American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons offers the following tool for finding member oral and maxillofacial surgeons in your area. http://www.aaoms.org/findoms.php Sometimes with more rare diseases, it can be helpful to have an evaluation with a specialist at a major university hospital or academic medical center. Such facilities often have access to up-to-date testing and technology, a large group of health care providers and specialists to consult with, and research opportunities.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to prevent Varicella (Chickenpox) Vaccination ?
Answer: At a Glance 
 
Vaccine-preventable disease levels are at or near record lows. Even though most infants and toddlers have received all recommended vaccines by age 2, many under-immunized children remain, leaving the potential for outbreaks of disease. Many adolescents and adults are under-immunized as well, missing opportunities to protect themselves against diseases such as Hepatitis B, influenza, and pneumococcal disease. CDC works closely with public health agencies and private partners to improve and sustain immunization coverage and to monitor the safety of vaccines so that this public health success story can be maintained and expanded in the century to come.  
  
 Vaccine Shortages & Delays 
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
The latest national information about vaccine supplies and guidance for healthcare providers who are facing vaccine shortages or delays 
     
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 Potential New Vaccines 
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
Resources for finding information on potential vaccines, research and development status, licensure status, etc. 
       
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 Vaccines: The Basics 
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
Without vaccines, epidemics of many preventable diseases could return, resulting in increased  and unnecessary  illness, disability, and death. 
          
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 FAQ about Vaccines & Diseases they Prevent 
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
   
          
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
                
 
                
 
 
 
                
  
 
  
  
Images and logos on this website which are trademarked/copyrighted or used with permission of the trademark/copyright or logo holder are not in the public domain. These images and logos have been licensed for or used with permission in the materials provided on this website. The materials in the form presented on this website may be used without seeking further permission. Any other use of trademarked/copyrighted images or logos requires permission from the trademark/copyright holder...more 
  
  
  
  This graphic notice means that you are leaving an HHS Web site. For more information, please see the Exit Notification and Disclaimer policy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the genetic changes related to multiple endocrine neoplasia ?
Answer: Mutations in the MEN1, RET, and CDKN1B genes can cause multiple endocrine neoplasia.  Mutations in the MEN1 gene cause multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. This gene provides instructions for producing a protein called menin. Menin acts as a tumor suppressor, which means it normally keeps cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Although the exact function of menin is unknown, it is likely involved in cell functions such as copying and repairing DNA and regulating the activity of other genes. When mutations inactivate both copies of the MEN1 gene, menin is no longer available to control cell growth and division. The loss of functional menin allows cells to divide too frequently, leading to the formation of tumors characteristic of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. It is unclear why these tumors preferentially affect endocrine tissues.  Mutations in the RET gene cause multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2. This gene provides instructions for producing a protein that is involved in signaling within cells. The RET protein triggers chemical reactions that instruct cells to respond to their environment, for example by dividing or maturing. Mutations in the RET gene overactivate the protein's signaling function, which can trigger cell growth and division in the absence of signals from outside the cell. This unchecked cell division can lead to the formation of tumors in endocrine glands and other tissues.  Mutations in the CDKN1B gene cause multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called p27. Like the menin protein, p27 is a tumor suppressor that helps control the growth and division of cells. Mutations in the CDKN1B gene reduce the amount of functional p27, which allows cells to grow and divide unchecked. This unregulated cell division can lead to the development of tumors in endocrine glands and other tissues.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Madelung disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Madelung disease inherited? Although the exact cause of Madelung disease is unknown, most cases are not thought to be inherited. However, more than one family member can occasionally be affected by this condition which suggests that it may be inherited in rare cases. In the majority of these families, the mode of inheritance has not been determined. However, changes (mutations) in mitochondrial DNA have been identified in some families who have Madelung disease in combination with other conditions that affect many different systems of the body.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) VIPoma ?
Answer: VIPoma is a rare cancer that develops within the pancreas. This tumor causes pancreatic cells to produce high levels of a hormone called vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). The signs and symptoms of a VIPoma include abdominal pain, flushing or redness of the face, nausea, watery diarrhea, weight loss, dehydration, and low blood potassium (hypokalemia). VIPomas are usually diagnosed in adults around age 50. The cause of VIPoma is unknown. Treatment may include intravenous (IV) fluids to correct dehydration, medications such as octreotide to help control diarrhea, and surgery to remove the tumor.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Miller-Dieker syndrome ?
Answer: Miller-Dieker syndrome is a condition characterized by a pattern of abnormal brain development known as lissencephaly. Normally the exterior of the brain (cerebral cortex) is multi-layered with folds and grooves. People with lissencephaly have an abnormally smooth brain with fewer folds and grooves. These brain malformations cause severe intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, abnormal muscle stiffness (spasticity), weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and feeding difficulties. Seizures usually begin before six months of age, and some occur from birth. Typically, the smoother the surface of the brain is, the more severe the associated symptoms are.  In addition to lissencephaly, people with Miller-Dieker syndrome tend to have distinctive facial features that include a prominent forehead; a sunken appearance in the middle of the face (midface hypoplasia); a small, upturned nose; low-set and abnormally shaped ears; a small jaw; and a thick upper lip. Some individuals with this condition also grow more slowly than other children. Rarely, affected individuals will have heart or kidney malformations or an opening in the wall of the abdomen (an omphalocele) that allows the abdominal organs to protrude through the navel. People with Miller-Dieker syndrome may also have life-threatening breathing problems. Most individuals with this condition do not survive beyond childhood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to familial osteochondritis dissecans ?
Answer: Mutation of the ACAN gene can cause familial osteochondritis dissecans. The ACAN gene provides instructions for making the aggrecan protein, which is a component of cartilage. Aggrecan attaches to the other components of cartilage, organizing the network of molecules that gives cartilage its strength. In addition, aggrecan attracts water molecules and gives cartilage its gel-like structure. This feature enables the cartilage to resist compression, protecting bones and joints.  The ACAN gene mutation associated with familial osteochondritis dissecans results in an abnormal protein that is unable to attach to the other components of cartilage. As a result, the cartilage is disorganized and weak. It is unclear how the abnormal cartilage leads to the lesions and osteoarthritis characteristic of familial osteochondritis dissecans. Researchers suggest that a disorganized cartilage network in growing bones impairs their normal growth, leading to short stature.  Sporadic osteochondritis dissecans is not caused by genetic changes and is not inherited.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Negative rheumatoid factor polyarthritis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Negative rheumatoid factor polyarthritis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Negative rheumatoid factor polyarthritis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autoimmune antibody positivity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by early-onset glaucoma ?
Answer: Primary congenital glaucoma affects approximately 1 in 10,000 people. Its frequency is higher in the Middle East. Juvenile open-angle glaucoma affects about 1 in 50,000 people. Primary open-angle glaucoma is much more common after the age of 40, affecting about 1 percent of the population worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Primary Biliary Cirrhosis ?
Answer: Treatment for primary biliary cirrhosis depends on how early a health care provider diagnoses the disease and whether complications are present. In the early stages of primary biliary cirrhosis, treatment can slow the progression of liver damage to cirrhosis. In the early stages of cirrhosis, the goals of treatment are to slow the progression of tissue scarring in the liver and prevent complications. As cirrhosis progresses, a person may need additional treatments and hospitalization to manage complications.
                
Medications
                
Health care providers prescribe ursodiol (Actigall, Urso) to treat primary biliary cirrhosis. Ursodiol is a nontoxic bile acid that people can take orally. Ursodiol replaces the bile acids that are normally produced by the liver, which are more toxic and can harm the liver. Treatment with ursodiol can reduce levels of bilirubin and liver enzymes in the blood. Early treatment with this medication reduces the likelihood of needing a liver transplant and improves survival.3 Early treatment provides the most benefit; however, ursodiol treatment late in the course of the disease can still slow the progression of liver damage. While ursodiol treatment improves the outcome of primary biliary cirrhosis, it does not cure the disease.
                
Researchers are studying the effects of several other medications on the progression of primary biliary cirrhosis. To date, none has shown the positive effects of ursodiol.
                
Avoiding Alcohol and Other Substances
                
People with cirrhosis should not drink any alcohol or take any illegal substances, as both will cause more liver damage. People with cirrhosis should avoid complementary and alternative medications, such as herbs. People with cirrhosis should be careful about starting new medications and should consult a health care provider before taking prescription medications, over-the-counter medications, or vitamins. Many vitamins and prescription and over-the-counter medications can affect liver function.
                
Treatment of Symptoms and Complications
                
Health care providers treat symptoms and complications as follows:
                
Itching. Antihistamines may help with mild itching. However, antihistamines often cause drowsiness, and a person should take antihistamines just before bedtime to help with nighttime itching. A health care provider will treat more problematic itching with cholestyramine (Locholest, Questran), which reduces cholesterol in the blood. Experts believe high levels of cholesterol let substances that cause itching build up in tissues.
                
Dry eyes and mouth. Health care providers usually treat dry eyes and mouth with artificial tears and saliva substitutes, respectively. These products are available without a prescription. A health care provider may treat people whose symptoms do not improve with pilocarpine (Salagen) or cevimeline (Evoxac). People who have difficulty with dry eyes should see an ophthalmologista doctor who diagnoses and treats all eye diseases and eye disordersregularly. People with dry mouth should have regular dental exams.
                
Portal hypertension. A health care provider may prescribe a beta-blocker or nitrate to treat portal hypertension. Beta-blockers lower blood pressure by helping the heart beat slower and with less force, and nitrates relax and widen blood vessels to let more blood flow to the heart and reduce the hearts workload.
                
Varices. Beta-blockers can lower the pressure in varices and reduce the likelihood of bleeding. Bleeding in the stomach or esophagus requires an immediate upper endoscopy. This procedure involves using an endoscope to look for varices. The health care provider may use the endoscope to perform a band ligation, a procedure that involves placing a special rubber band around the varices that causes the tissue to die and fall off. A gastroenterologist performs the procedure at a hospital or an outpatient center. People who have had varices in the past may need to take medication to prevent future episodes.
                
Edema and ascites. Health care providers prescribe diureticsmedications that remove fluid from the bodyto treat edema and ascites. A health care provider may remove large amounts of ascitic fluid from the abdomen and check for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. A health care provider may prescribe bacteria-fighting medications called antibiotics to prevent infection. He or she may prescribe oral antibiotics; however, severe infection with ascites requires intravenous (IV) antibiotics.
                
Hepatic encephalopathy. A health care provider will treat hepatic encephalopathy by cleansing the bowel with lactulose, a laxative given orally or as an enemaa liquid put into the rectum. A health care provider may also add antibiotics to the treatment. Hepatic encephalopathy may improve as other complications of cirrhosis are controlled.
                
Osteoporosis. A health care provider may prescribe bisphosphonate medications to improve bone density.
                
Gallstones and bile duct stones. A health care provider may use surgery to remove gallstones. He or she may use endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, which uses balloons and basketlike devices, to retrieve the bile duct stones.
                
Liver cancer. A health care provider may recommend screening tests every 6 to 12 months to check for signs of liver cancer. Screening tests can find cancer before the person has symptoms of the disease. Cancer treatment is usually more effective when the health care provider finds the disease early. Health care providers use blood tests, ultrasound, or both to screen for liver cancer in people with cirrhosis. He or she may treat cancer with a combination of surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epilepsy with grand mal seizures on awakening  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epilepsy, idiopathic generalized 10  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epilepsy, idiopathic generalized 9  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epilepsy, juvenile myoclonic 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epilepsy, juvenile myoclonic 9  - Genetic Testing Registry: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy  - Merck Manual Consumer Version: Seizure Disorders   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) progressive supranuclear palsy ?
Answer: Progressive supranuclear palsy is a brain disorder that affects movement, vision, speech, and thinking ability (cognition). The signs and symptoms of this disorder usually become apparent in mid- to late adulthood, most often in a person's 60s. Most people with progressive supranuclear palsy survive 5 to 9 years after the disease first appears, although a few affected individuals have lived for more than a decade.  Loss of balance and frequent falls are the most common early signs of progressive supranuclear palsy. Affected individuals have problems with walking, including poor coordination and an unsteady, lurching gait. Other movement abnormalities develop as the disease progresses, including unusually slow movements (bradykinesia), clumsiness, and stiffness of the trunk muscles. These problems worsen with time, and most affected people ultimately require wheelchair assistance.  Progressive supranuclear palsy is also characterized by abnormal eye movements, which typically develop several years after the other movement problems first appear. Restricted up-and-down eye movement (vertical gaze palsy) is a hallmark of this disease. Other eye movement problems include difficulty opening and closing the eyelids, infrequent blinking, and pulling back (retraction) of the eyelids. These abnormalities can lead to blurred vision, an increased sensitivity to light (photophobia), and a staring gaze.  Additional features of progressive supranuclear palsy include slow and slurred speech (dysarthria) and trouble swallowing (dysphagia). Most affected individuals also experience changes in personality and behavior, such as a general loss of interest and enthusiasm (apathy). They develop problems with cognition, including difficulties with attention, planning, and problem solving. As the cognitive and behavioral problems worsen, affected individuals increasingly require help with personal care and other activities of daily living.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome ?
Answer: Crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome is rare; this condition is seen in about 1 person per million.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to juvenile primary osteoporosis ?
Answer: Mutations in the LRP5 gene can cause juvenile primary osteoporosis. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that participates in a chemical signaling pathway that affects the way cells and tissues develop. In particular, the LRP5 protein is involved in the regulation of bone mineral density.  LRP5 gene mutations that cause juvenile primary osteoporosis result in an LRP5 protein that cannot transmit signals along the pathway. The resulting reduction in signaling impairs proper bone development, causing decreased bone mineral density and osteoporosis at a young age.  Many people with childhood-onset osteoporosis do not have a mutation in the LRP5 gene. (When its cause is unknown, the condition is often called idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis). It is likely that mutations in other genes that have not been identified are involved in this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?
Answer: While idiopathic, or unknown, diseases are the most common cause of primary childhood nephrotic syndrome, researchers have linked certain diseases and some specific genetic changes that damage the kidneys with primary childhood nephrotic syndrome.
                
The cause of secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome is an underlying disease or infection. Called a primary illness, its this underlying disease or infection that causes changes in the kidney function that can result in secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome.
                
Congenital diseasesdiseases that are present at birthcan also cause childhood nephrotic syndrome.
                
Primary Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome
                
The following diseases are different types of idiopathic childhood nephrotic syndrome:
                
- Minimal change disease involves damage to the glomeruli that can be seen only with an electron microscope. This type of microscope shows tiny details better than any other microscope. Scientists do not know the exact cause of minimal change disease. Minimal change disease is the most common cause of idiopathic childhood nephrotic syndrome.1  - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is scarring in scattered regions of the kidney:     - Focal means that only some of the glomeruli become scarred.    - Segmental means damage affects only part of an individual glomerulus.    - Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is a group of disorders involving deposits of antibodies that build up in the glomeruli, causing thickening and damage. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system to protect the body from foreign substances such as bacteria or viruses.
                
Secondary Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome
                
Some common diseases that can cause secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome include
                
- diabetes, a condition that occurs when the body cannot use glucosea type of sugarnormally  - Henoch-Schnlein purpura, a disease that causes small blood vessels in the body to become inflamed and leak  - hepatitis, inflammation of the liver caused by a virus  - human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a virus that alters the immune system  - lupus, an autoimmune disease that occurs when the body attacks its own immune system  - malaria, a disease of the blood that is spread by mosquitos  - streptococcal infection, an infection that results when the bacteria that causes strep throat or a skin infection is left untreated
                
Other causes of secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome can include certain medications, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and exposure to chemicals, such as mercury and lithium.
                
Congenital Diseases and Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome
                
Congenital nephrotic syndrome is rare and affects infants in the first 3 months of life.2 This type of nephrotic syndrome, sometimes called infantile nephrotic syndrome, can be caused by
                
- inherited genetic defects, which are problems passed from parent to child through genes  - infections at the time of birth
                
More information about underlying diseases or infections that cause changes in kidney function is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Glomerular Diseases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is X-linked sideroblastic anemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. Carriers of an ALAS2 mutation can pass on the mutated gene, but most do not develop any symptoms associated with X-linked sideroblastic anemia. However, carriers may have abnormally small, pale red blood cells and related changes that can be detected with a blood test.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) 47,XYY syndrome ?
Answer: 47,XYY syndrome is characterized by an extra copy of the Y chromosome in each of a male's cells. Although males with this condition may be taller than average, this chromosomal change typically causes no unusual physical features. Most males with 47,XYY syndrome have normal sexual development and are able to father children.  47,XYY syndrome is associated with an increased risk of learning disabilities and delayed development of speech and language skills. Delayed development of motor skills (such as sitting and walking), weak muscle tone (hypotonia), hand tremors or other involuntary movements (motor tics), and behavioral and emotional difficulties are also possible. These characteristics vary widely among affected boys and men.  A small percentage of males with 47,XYY syndrome are diagnosed with autistic spectrum disorders, which are developmental conditions that affect communication and social interaction.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to spinocerebellar ataxia type 36 ?
Answer: SCA36 is caused by mutations in the NOP56 gene. The NOP56 gene provides instructions for making a protein called nucleolar protein 56, which is primarily found in the nucleus of nerve cells (neurons), particularly those in the cerebellum. This protein is one part (subunit) of the ribonucleoprotein complex, which is composed of proteins and molecules of RNA, DNA's chemical cousin. The ribonucleoprotein complex is needed to make cellular structures called ribosomes, which process the cell's genetic instructions to create proteins.  The NOP56 gene mutations that cause SCA36 involve a string of six DNA building blocks (nucleotides) located in an area of the gene known as intron 1. This string of six nucleotides (known as a hexanucleotide) is represented by the letters GGCCTG and normally appears multiple times in a row. In healthy individuals, GGCCTG is repeated 3 to 14 times within the gene. In people with SCA36, GGCCTG is repeated at least 650 times. It is unclear if 15 to 649 repeats of this hexanucleotide cause any signs or symptoms.  To make proteins from the genetic instructions carried in genes, a molecule called messenger RNA (mRNA) is formed. This molecule acts as a genetic blueprint for protein production. However, a large increase in the number of GGCCTG repeats in the NOP56 gene disrupts the normal structure of NOP56 mRNA. Abnormal NOP56 mRNA molecules form clumps called RNA foci within the nucleus of neurons. Other proteins become trapped in the RNA foci, where they cannot function. These proteins may be important for controlling gene activity or protein production.  Additionally, researchers believe that the large expansion of the hexanucleotide repeat in the NOP56 gene may reduce the activity of a nearby gene called MIR1292. The MIR1292 gene provides instructions for making a type of RNA that regulates the activity (expression) of genes that produce proteins called glutamate receptors. These proteins are found on the surface of neurons and allow these cells to communicate with one another. A decrease in the production of Mir1292 RNA can lead to an increase in the production of glutamate receptors. The increased receptor activity may overexcite neurons, which disrupts normal communication between cells and can contribute to ataxia.  The combination of RNA foci and overly excited neurons likely leads to the death of these cells over time. Because the NOP56 gene is especially active in neurons in the cerebellum, these cells are particularly affected by expansion of the gene, leading to cerebellar atrophy. Deterioration in this part of the brain leads to ataxia and the other signs and symptoms of SCA36.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome ?
Answer: Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome (BHDS) is a rare, complex, genetic disorder with three main clinical findings: non-cancerous (benign) skin tumors; lung cysts and/or history of pneumothorax (collapsed lung); and various types of renal tumors. Fibrofolliculomas are a type of benign skin tumor specific to BHDS. They typically occur on the face, neck, and upper torso. Most people with BHDS also have multiple cysts in both lungs that can be seen on high-resolution chest CT scan. While these cysts usually do not cause any symptoms, they put people at increased risk for spontaneous pneumothorax. BHDS is caused by mutations in the FLCN gene. The condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is neurofibromatosis type 1 inherited ?
Answer: Neurofibromatosis type 1 is considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. People with this condition are born with one mutated copy of the NF1 gene in each cell. In about half of cases, the altered gene is inherited from an affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the NF1 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Unlike most other autosomal dominant conditions, in which one altered copy of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, two copies of the NF1 gene must be altered to trigger tumor formation in neurofibromatosis type 1. A mutation in the second copy of the NF1 gene occurs during a person's lifetime in specialized cells surrounding nerves. Almost everyone who is born with one NF1 mutation acquires a second mutation in many cells and develops the tumors characteristic of neurofibromatosis type 1.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Todd's Paralysis ?
Answer: There is no treatment for Todd's paralysis. Individuals must rest as comfortably as possible until the paralysis disappears.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Vesicoureteral Reflux ?
Answer: The two types of VUR are primary and secondary. Most cases of VUR are primary and typically affect only one ureter and kidney. With primary VUR, a child is born with a ureter that did not grow long enough during the childs development in the womb. The valve formed by the ureter pressing against the bladder wall does not close properly, so urine refluxes from the bladder to the ureter and eventually to the kidney. This type of VUR can get better or disappear as a child gets older. As a child grows, the ureter gets longer and function of the valve improves.
                
Secondary VUR occurs when a blockage in the urinary tract causes an increase in pressure and pushes urine back up into the ureters. Children with secondary VUR often have bilateral reflux. VUR caused by a physical defect typically results from an abnormal fold of tissue in the urethra that keeps urine from flowing freely out of the bladder.
                
VUR is usually classified as grade I through V, with grade I being the least severe and grade V being the most severe.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Urinary Tract Infections ?
Answer: Because most UTIs are caused by bacteria, bacteria-fighting medications called antibiotics are the usual treatment. The type of antibiotic and length of treatment depend on the patients history and the type of bacteria causing the infection. Bladder infections may eventually get better on their own. But antibiotics can make the symptoms go away much more quickly. People usually feel better within a day or two of starting antibiotics. Drinking lots of fluids and urinating often may also speed healing. If needed, pain-killers can relieve the pain of a UTI. A heating pad on the back or abdomen may also help. Learn more about treating urinary tract infections.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for 1q21.1 microdeletion ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of 1q21.1 microdeletion:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: 1q21.1 Recurrent Microdeletion  - Genetic Testing Registry: 1q21.1 recurrent microdeletion   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Trichomoniasis ?
Answer: Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted disease caused by a parasite. You get it through sexual intercourse with an infected partner. Many people do not have any symptoms. If you do get symptoms, they usually happen within 5 to 28 days after being infected.    Symptoms in women include       - Yellow-green or gray discharge from the vagina    - Discomfort during sex    - Vaginal odor    - Painful urination    - Itching in or near the vagina       Most men do not have symptoms. If they do, they may have a whitish discharge from the penis and painful or difficult urination and ejaculation.    Lab tests can tell if you have the infection. Treatment is with antibiotics. If you are infected, you and your partner must be treated. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading trichomoniasis.    NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) glycogen storage disease type VI ?
Answer: Glycogen storage disease type VI (also known as GSDVI or Hers disease) is an inherited disorder caused by an inability to break down a complex sugar called glycogen in liver cells. A lack of glycogen breakdown interferes with the normal function of the liver.  The signs and symptoms of GSDVI typically begin in infancy to early childhood. The first sign is usually an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly). Affected individuals may also have low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) or a buildup of lactic acid in the body (lactic acidosis) during prolonged periods without food (fasting).  The signs and symptoms of GSDVI tend to improve with age; most adults with this condition do not have any related health problems.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Myasthenia Gravis ?
Answer: With treatment, most individuals with myasthenia can significantly improve their muscle weakness. Some case of myasthenia gravis may go into remission temporarily, and muscle weakness may disappear so that medications can be discontinued. In a few cases, the severe weakness of myasthenia gravis may cause respiratory failure, which requires immediate emergency medical care.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Lymphatic filariasis ?
Answer: Lymphatic filariasis is a parasitic disease caused by microscopic, thread-like worms that only live in the human lymph system, which maintains the body's fluid balance and fights infections. It is spread from person to person by mosquitoes. Most infected people are asymptomatic and never develop clinical symptoms. A small percentage of people develop lymphedema, which may affect the legs, arms, breasts, and genitalia; bacterial infections that cause hardening and thickening of the skin, called elephantiasis; hydrocele (swelling of the scrotum) in men; and pulmonary tropical eosinophilia syndrome. Treatment may include a yearly dose of medicine, called diethylcarbamazine (DEC); while this drug does not kill all of the adult worms, it prevents infected people from giving the disease to someone else.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Zellweger spectrum disorder ?
Answer: Zellweger spectrum disorder is estimated to occur in 1 in 50,000 individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Neuralgic Amyotrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurological Consequences of Cytomegalovirus Infection ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conduct research related to CMV infection in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent and treat CMV infection in people at risk of severe neurological consequences, especially a safe and effective CMV vaccine.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What to do for Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis ?
Answer: - Peritoneal dialysis is a treatment for kidney failure that uses the lining of your abdomen, or belly, to filter your blood inside your body.  - The two types of peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and automated peritoneal dialysis.  - The most common problem with peritoneal dialysis is peritonitis, a serious abdominal infection.  - When dialysis solution stays in the body too long, it becomes so full of wastes and extra fluid that it cannot absorb any more from the body. The process may even reverse, letting some wastes and extra fluid back into the body.  - Eating the right foods can help you feel better while on peritoneal dialysis. Talk with your dialysis centers dietitian to find a meal plan that works for you.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Frasier syndrome ?
Answer: Frasier syndrome is a condition that affects the kidneys and genitalia.  Frasier syndrome is characterized by kidney disease that begins in early childhood. Affected individuals have a condition called focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, in which scar tissue forms in some glomeruli, which are the tiny blood vessels in the kidneys that filter waste from blood. In people with Frasier syndrome, this condition often leads to kidney failure by adolescence.  Although males with Frasier syndrome have the typical male chromosome pattern (46,XY), they have gonadal dysgenesis, in which external genitalia do not look clearly male or clearly female (ambiguous genitalia) or the genitalia appear completely female. The internal reproductive organs (gonads) are typically undeveloped and referred to as streak gonads. These abnormal gonads are nonfunctional and often become cancerous, so they are usually removed surgically early in life.  Affected females usually have normal genitalia and gonads and have only the kidney features of the condition. Because they do not have all the features of the condition, females are usually given the diagnosis of isolated nephrotic syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Urinary Incontinence in Men ?
Answer: The prostate is a walnut-shaped gland that is part of the male reproductive system. The prostate has two or more lobes, or sections, enclosed by an outer layer of tissue. Located in front of the rectum and just below the bladder, the prostate surrounds the urethra at the neck of the bladder and supplies fluid that goes into semen.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How to diagnose Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone ?
Answer: Imaging tests are used to detect (find) osteosarcoma and MFH.
	                        Imaging tests are done before the biopsy. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   X-ray : An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the body. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.     -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).
	                    
	                    
	                    	A biopsy is done to diagnose osteosarcoma.
	                   		Cells and tissues are removed during a biopsy so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer. It is important that the biopsy be done by a surgeon who is an expert in treating cancer of the bone. It is best if that surgeon is also the one who removes the tumor. The biopsy and the surgery to remove the tumor are planned together. The way the biopsy is done affects which type of surgery can be done later.    The type of biopsy that is done will be based on the size of the tumor and where it is in the body. There are two types of biopsy that may be used:         -   Core biopsy : The removal of tissue using a wide needle.    -   Incisional biopsy : The removal of part of a lump or a sample of tissue that doesn't look normal.         The following test may be done on the tissue that is removed:          -   Light and electron microscopy : A laboratory test in which cells in a sample of tissue are viewed under regular and high-powered microscopes to look for certain changes in the cells.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for Stargardt disease ?
Answer: How might Stargardt disease be treated? At present there is no cure for Stargardt disease, and there is very little that can be done to slow its progression. Wearing sunglasses to protect the eyes from UVa, UVb and bright light may be of some benefit. Animal studies have shown that taking excessive amounts of vitamin A and beta carotene could promote the additional accumulation of lipofuscin, as well as a toxic vitamin A derivative called A2E; it is typically recommended that these be avoided by individuals with Stargardt disease. There are possible treatments for Stargardt disease that are being tested, including a gene therapy treatment, which has been given orphan drug status by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA, similar to the FDA). You can read more about this treatment by clicking here. There are also clinical trials involving embryonic stem cell treatments.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Antisynthetase syndrome ?
Answer: What treatment is available for antisynthetase syndrome? Corticosteroids are typically the first-line of treatment and may be required for several months or years. These medications are often given orally; however, in severe cases, intravenous methylprednisolone may be prescribe initially. Immunosuppressive medications may also be recommended, especially in people with severe muscle weakness or symptomatic interstitial lung disease. Physical therapy is often necessary to improve weakness, reduce further muscle wasting from disuse, and prevent muscle contractures.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: ARVC occurs in an estimated 1 in 1,000 to 1 in 1,250 people. This disorder may be underdiagnosed because it can be difficult to detect in people with mild or no symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Sexual Problems in Women
Answer: Summary : There are many problems that can keep a woman from enjoying sex. They include       - Lack of sexual desire     - Inability to become aroused    - Lack of orgasm, or sexual climax    - Painful intercourse       These problems may have physical or psychological causes. Physical causes may include conditions like diabetes, heart disease, nerve disorders, or hormone problems. Some drugs can also affect desire and function. Psychological causes may include work-related stress and anxiety. They may also include depression or concerns about marriage or relationship problems. For some women, the problem results from past sexual trauma.     Occasional problems with sexual function are common. If problems last more than a few months or cause distress for you or your partner, you should see your health care provider.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteoporosis oculocutaneous hypopigmentation syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteoporosis oculocutaneous hypopigmentation syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteoporosis oculocutaneous hypopigmentation syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Generalized osteoporosis - Hypopigmentation of the skin - Ocular albinism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Assisted Reproductive Technology
Answer: Summary : Assisted reproductive technology (ART) is used to treat infertility. It includes fertility treatments that handle both a woman's egg and a man's sperm. It works by removing eggs from a woman's body. The eggs are then mixed with sperm to make embryos. The embryos are then put back in the woman's body. In vitro fertilization (IVF) is the most common and effective type of ART.     ART procedures sometimes use donor eggs, donor sperm, or previously frozen embryos. It may also involve a surrogate or gestational carrier. A surrogate is a woman who becomes pregnant with sperm from the male partner of the couple. A gestational carrier becomes pregnant with an egg from the female partner and the sperm from the male partner.     The most common complication of ART is a multiple pregnancy. It can be prevented or minimized by limiting the number of embryos that are put into the woman's body.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy ?
Answer: How might Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy be treated? Treatment with calcium and vitamin D supplements help maintain normal levels of calcium in the blood. If there are high levels of phosphate in the blood, it may be recommended to eat a low-phosphorous diet or take medications called phosphate binders to help lower the levels of phosphate. Examples of phosphate binders include calcium carbonate, calcium acetate, and sevelamer HCl.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Narcolepsy ?
Answer: It can take as long as 10 to 15 years after the first symptoms appear before narcolepsy is recognized and diagnosed. This is because narcolepsy is fairly rare. Also, many narcolepsy symptoms are like symptoms of other illnesses, such as infections, depression, and sleep disorders.
                
Narcolepsy sometimes is mistaken for learning problems, seizure disorders, or laziness, especially in school-aged children and teens. When narcolepsy symptoms are mild, the disorder is even harder to diagnose.
                
Your doctor will diagnose narcolepsy based on your signs and symptoms, your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results.
                
Signs and Symptoms
                
Tell your doctor about any signs and symptoms of narcolepsy that you have. This is important because your doctor may not ask about them during a routine checkup.
                
Your doctor will want to know when you first had signs and symptoms and whether they bother your sleep or daily routine. He or she also will want to know about your sleep habits and how you feel and act during the day.
                
To help answer these questions, you may want to keep a sleep diary for a few weeks. Keep a daily record of how easy it is to fall and stay asleep, how much sleep you get at night, and how alert you feel during the day.
                
For a sample sleep diary, go to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's "Your Guide to Healthy Sleep."
                
Medical and Family Histories
                
Your doctor may ask whether:
                
You're affected by certain factors that can lead to narcolepsy. Examples of these factors include infections, brain injuries, and autoimmune disorders. Some research suggests that environmental toxins may play a role in triggering narcolepsy.
                
You take medicines and which ones you take. Some medicines can cause daytime sleepiness. Thus, your symptoms may be due to medicine, not narcolepsy.
                
You have symptoms of other sleep disorders that cause daytime sleepiness.
                
You have relatives who have narcolepsy or who have signs or symptoms of the disorder.
                
Physical Exam
                
Your doctor will check you to see whether another condition is causing your symptoms. For example, infections, certain thyroid diseases, drug and alcohol use, and other medical or sleep disorders may cause symptoms similar to those of narcolepsy.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
Sleep Studies
                
If your doctor thinks you have narcolepsy, he or she will likely suggest that you see a sleep specialist. This specialist may advise you to have sleep studies to find out more about your condition.
                
Sleep studies usually are done at a sleep center. Doctors use the results from two tests to diagnose narcolepsy. These tests are a polysomnogram (PSG) and a multiple sleep latency test (MSLT).
                
Polysomnogram. You usually stay overnight at a sleep center for a PSG. The test records brain activity, eye movements, heart rate, and blood pressure. A PSG can help find out whether you:
                
Fall asleep quickly
                
Go into rapid eye movement (REM) sleep soon after falling asleep
                
Wake up often during the night
                
Multiple sleep latency test. This daytime sleep study measures how sleepy you are. It's often done the day after a PSG. During the test, you're asked to nap for 20minutes every 2 hours throughout the day. (You will nap a total of four or five times.)
                
A technician checks your brain activity during this time. He or she notes how quickly you fall asleep and how long it takes you to reach various stages of sleep.
                
An MSLT finds out how quickly you fall asleep during the day (after a full night's sleep). It also shows whether you go into REM sleep soon after falling asleep.
                
Other Tests
                
Hypocretin test. This test measures the level of hypocretin in the fluid that surrounds your spinal cord. Most people who have narcolepsy have low levels of hypocretin. Hypocretin is a chemical that helps promote wakefulness.
                
To get a sample of spinal cord fluid, a spinal tap (also called a lumbar puncture) is done. For this procedure, your doctor inserts a needle into your lower back area and then withdraws a sample of your spinal fluid.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Cerebral sclerosis similar to Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Cerebral sclerosis similar to Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cerebral sclerosis similar to Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Abnormality of the nervous system - Autosomal recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Hailey-Hailey disease ?
Answer: How might Hailey-Hailey disease be treated? There is no specific treatment for Hailey-Hailey disease and management generally focuses on the specific symptoms and severity in each person. Affected people are encouraged to avoid "triggers" such as sunburn, sweating, and friction, and to keep the affected areas dry. Sunscreen, loose clothing, moisturizing creams, and avoiding excessive heat may help prevent outbreaks. Trying to prevent bacterial, viral, and fungal infections in the affected areas is also important, and drugs used to treat or prevent these infections are commonly used. Topical medications (such as mild corticosteroid creams and topical antibiotics) may improve symptoms in milder forms. Cool compresses and dressings may also help. More severe cases may require systemic antibiotics and/or stronger corticosteroid creams. Carbon dioxide laser treatment may be effective for severe forms. In very severe cases, surgery can be performed to remove the affected skin, but skin grafts are usually necessary to repair the wounds.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Winchester syndrome ?
Answer: Winchester syndrome is a rare condition whose prevalence is unknown. It has been reported in only a few individuals worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome ?
Answer: Multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. It is one of several conditions classified as mitochondrial disorders, which affect an estimated 1 in 5,000 people worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Childhood-onset cerebral X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Childhood-onset cerebral X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Childhood-onset cerebral X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the skeletal system - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder - Blindness - Bowel incontinence - Bulbar palsy - Dementia - Elevated long chain fatty acids - Hearing impairment - Hyperpigmentation of the skin - Hypogonadism - Impotence - Incoordination - Limb ataxia - Loss of speech - Neurodegeneration - Paraparesis - Polyneuropathy - Primary adrenal insufficiency - Progressive - Psychosis - Seizures - Slurred speech - Spastic paraplegia - Truncal ataxia - Urinary bladder sphincter dysfunction - Urinary incontinence - Visual loss - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Dermatoleukodystrophy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Dermatoleukodystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dermatoleukodystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Hyperkeratosis 90% Morphological abnormality of the central nervous system 90% Hyperreflexia 50% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Large hands - Leukodystrophy - Long foot - Macrotia - Premature skin wrinkling - Progeroid facial appearance - Prominent nose - Thickened skin - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Erdheim-Chester disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is not inherited. It arises from a somatic mutation in histiocytes or their precursor cells during an individual's lifetime.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Gastrointestinal stromal tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the gastrointestinal tract.    - Genetic factors can increase the risk of having a gastrointestinal stromal tumor.     - Signs of gastrointestinal stromal tumors include blood in the stool or vomit.    - Tests that examine the GI tract are used to detect (find) and diagnose gastrointestinal stromal tumors.    - Very small GISTs are common.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Gastrointestinal stromal tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the gastrointestinal tract.
                    The gastrointestinal (GI) tract is part of the bodys digestive system. It helps to digest food and takes nutrients (vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and water) from food so they can be used by the body. The GI tract is made up of the following organs:         -  Stomach.    -  Small intestine.    -  Large intestine (colon).         Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) may be malignant (cancer) or benign (not cancer). They are most common in the stomach and small intestine but may be found anywhere in or near the GI tract. Some scientists believe that GISTs begin in cells called interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), in the wall of the GI tract.      See the PDQ summary about Unusual Cancers of Childhood Treatment for information on the treatment of GIST in children.
                
                 
                    Very small GISTs are common.
                    Sometimes GISTs are smaller than the eraser on top of a pencil. Tumors may be found during a procedure that is done for another reason, such as an x-ray or surgery. Some of these small tumors will not grow and cause signs or symptoms or spread to the abdomen or other parts of the body. Doctors do not agree on whether these small tumors should be removed or whether they should be watched to see if they begin to grow.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What to do for Renal Artery Stenosis ?
Answer: Limiting intake of fats, cholesterol, sodium, and sugar can help prevent atherosclerosis, which can lead to RAS. Most sodium in the diet comes from salt. A healthy diet that prevents people from becoming overweight or obese can also help prevent atherosclerosis. People with RAS that has caused decreased kidney function should limit their intake of protein, cholesterol, sodium, and potassium to slow the progression of kidney failure. More information about nutrition for CKD is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nutrition for Early Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults and Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults. People should talk with their health care provider about what diet is right for them.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Brachydactyly Mononen type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Brachydactyly Mononen type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Brachydactyly Mononen type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Micromelia 90% Short distal phalanx of finger 90% Short hallux 90% Synostosis of carpal bones 90% Tarsal synostosis 90% Abnormal dermatoglyphics 50% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Abnormality of the metaphyses 50% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Exostoses 50% Short stature 50% Symphalangism affecting the phalanges of the hand 50% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Absent distal phalanx of the 2nd toe - Aplasia of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger - Mild short stature - Proximal fibular overgrowth - Short 1st metacarpal - Short first metatarsal - Synostosis of carpals/tarsals - X-linked dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Pulmonary Fibrosis ?
Answer: Pulmonary fibrosis is a condition in which the tissue deep in your lungs becomes scarred over time. This tissue gets thick and stiff. That makes it hard for you to catch your breath, and your blood may not get enough oxygen.    Causes of pulmonary fibrosis include environmental pollutants, some medicines, some connective tissue diseases, and interstitial lung disease. Interstitial lung disease is the name for a large group of diseases that inflame or scar the lungs. In most cases, the cause cannot be found. This is called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.    Symptoms include       - Shortness of breath    - A dry, hacking cough that doesn't get better    - Fatigue    - Weight loss for no known reason    - Aching muscles and joints    - Clubbing, which is the widening and rounding of the tips of the fingers or toes       Your doctor may use your medical history, imaging tests, a biopsy, and lung function tests to diagnose pulmonary fibrosis. There is no cure. Treatments can help with symptoms and improve your quality of life. They include medicines, oxygen therapy, pulmonary rehabilitation, or a lung transplant.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Budd-Chiari syndrome ?
Answer: How might Budd-Chiari syndrome be treated? The treatment of Budd-Chiari syndrome varies, depending on the cause of the blockage. Medical treatments may include: Blood-thinning (anticoagulation) medications Clot-busting drugs (thrombolytic treatment) Treatment for the liver disease, including ascites Surgical treatments may also be considered and include: Angioplasty and stent placement Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) Venous shunt surgery While medical therapy can be instituted for short-term, symptomatic benefit, medical therapy alone has been associated with a high 2-year mortality rate (80-85%). You can view more detailed information regarding the medical and surgical options for treatment of Budd-Chiari syndrome by clicking here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Autoimmune Hepatitis ?
Answer: Treatment for autoimmune hepatitis includes medication to suppress, or slow down, an overactive immune system. Treatment may also include a liver transplant.
                
Treatment works best when autoimmune hepatitis is diagnosed early. People with autoimmune hepatitis generally respond to standard treatment and the disease can be controlled in most cases. Long-term response to treatment can stop the disease from getting worse and may even reverse some damage to the liver.
                
Medications
                
People with autoimmune hepatitis who have no symptoms or a mild form of the disease may or may not need to take medication. A health care provider will determine if a person needs treatment. In some people with mild autoimmune hepatitis, the disease may go into remission. Remission is a period when a person is symptom-free and blood tests and liver biopsy show improvement in liver function.
                
Corticosteroids. Corticosteroids are medications that decrease swelling and reduce the activity of the immune system. Health care providers treat both types of autoimmune hepatitis with a daily dose of a corticosteroid called prednisone. Treatment may begin with a high dose that is gradually lowered as the disease is controlled. The treatment goal is to find the lowest possible dose that helps control the disease.
                
Side effects of prednisone may include
                
- weight gain  - weakness of the bones, called osteoporosis or osteomalacia  - thinning of the hair and skin  - acne  - diabetes  - high blood pressure  - cataracts, a clouding in the lens of the eyes  - glaucoma, elevated pressure in the eyes  - anxiety and confusion
                
A health care provider will closely monitor and manage any side effects that may occur, as high doses of prednisone are often prescribed to treat autoimmune hepatitis.
                
Immune system suppressors. Medications that suppress the immune system prevent the body from making autoantibodies and block the immune reaction that contributes to inflammation. In most cases, health care providers use azathioprine (Azasan, Imuran) in conjunction with prednisone to treat autoimmune hepatitis. When using azathioprine, a health care provider can use a lower dose of prednisone, which may reduce prednisone's side effects.
                
Side effects of azathioprine include
                
- low white blood cell count  - nausea  - vomiting  - skin rash  - liver damage  - pancreatitis, or inflammation of the pancreas
                
Azathioprine is an immune system suppressor, so people taking the medication should undergo routine blood tests to monitor their white blood cell counts. A low white blood cell count can lead to bone marrow failure. Bone marrow is the tissue found inside bones that produces new blood cells, including platelets. A health care provider will also check the platelet count when blood tests are done.
                
A person may need to discontinue prednisone or azathioprine if they cause severe side effects. The risk of side effects is higher in people who also have cirrhosis.
                
A health care provider may gradually reduce the dose of medication in people who show improvement, although the symptoms can return. When a person discontinues treatment, a health care provider will perform routine blood tests and carefully monitor the person's condition for a return of symptoms. Treatment with low doses of prednisone or azathioprine may be necessary on and off for many years.
                
People who do not respond to standard immune therapy or who have severe side effects from the medications may benefit from other immunosuppressive agents such as mycophenolate mofetil (CellCept), cyclosporine, or tacrolimus (Hecoria, Prograf).
                
Medications that suppress the immune system may lead to various forms of cancer. People on low doses of azathioprine for long periods of time are at slight risk of developing cancer.
                
Liver Transplant
                
In some people, autoimmune hepatitis progresses to cirrhosis and end-stage liver failure, and a liver transplant may be necessary. Symptoms of cirrhosis and liver failure include the symptoms of autoimmune hepatitis and
                
- generalized itching  - a longer-than-usual amount of time for bleeding to stop  - easy bruising  - a swollen stomach or swollen ankles  - spiderlike blood vessels, called spider angiomas, that develop on the skin  - abdominal bloating due to an enlarged liver  - fluid in the abdomenalso called ascites  - forgetfulness or confusion
                
Liver transplant is surgery to remove a diseased or an injured liver and replace it with a healthy one from another person, called a donor. A team of surgeons performs a liver transplant in a hospital. When possible, the patient fasts for 8 hours before the surgery. The patient stays in the hospital about 1 to 2 weeks to be sure the transplanted liver is functioning properly. The health care provider will monitor the patient for bleeding, infections, and signs of liver rejection. The patient will take prescription medications long term to prevent infections and rejection. Liver transplant surgery for autoimmune hepatitis is successful in most cases.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Liver Transplantation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by sitosterolemia ?
Answer: Only 80 to 100 individuals with sitosterolemia have been described in the medical literature. However, researchers believe that this condition is likely underdiagnosed because mild cases often do not come to medical attention. Studies suggest that the prevalence may be at least 1 in 50,000 people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by osteoglophonic dysplasia ?
Answer: Osteoglophonic dysplasia is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Only about 15 cases have been reported in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: Alagille syndrome is caused by a gene mutation, or defect. Genes provide instructions for making proteins in the body. A gene mutation is a permanent change in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the material inside cells that carries genetic information and passes genes from parent to child. Approximately 30 to 50 percent of people with Alagille syndrome have an inherited gene mutation, meaning it has been passed on by a parent. In the remaining cases, the gene mutation develops spontaneously.1 In spontaneous cases, neither parent carries a copy of the mutated gene.
                
Most cases of Alagille syndrome are caused by a mutation in the JAGGED1 (JAG1) gene. In less than 1 percent of cases, a mutation in the NOTCH2 gene is the cause.2
                

                
Genetic Disorders   Each cell contains thousands of genes that provide the instructions for making proteins for growth and repair of the body. If a gene has a mutation, the protein made by that gene may not function properly, which sometimes creates a genetic disorder. Not all gene mutations cause a disorder.   People have two copies of most genes; one copy is inherited from each parent. A genetic disorder occurs when one or both parents pass a mutated gene to a child at conception. A genetic disorder can also occur through a spontaneous gene mutation, meaning neither parent carries a copy of the mutated gene. Once a spontaneous gene mutation has occurred in a person, it can be passed to the person's children.   Read more about genes and genetic conditions at the U.S. National Library of Medicine's (NLM's) Genetics Home Reference at www.ghr.nlm.nih.gov.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2B ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2B? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2B. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Areflexia - Autoamputation (feet) - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Axonal degeneration/regeneration - Decreased motor nerve conduction velocity - Decreased number of peripheral myelinated nerve fibers - Distal amyotrophy - Dystrophic toenail - Foot dorsiflexor weakness - Hammertoe - Hyporeflexia - Osteomyelitis or necrosis, distal, due to sensory neuropathy (feet) - Peripheral axonal atrophy - Pes cavus - Pes planus - Steppage gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Cerebellar Hypoplasia ?
Answer: There is no standard course of treatment for cerebellar hypoplasia. Treatment depends upon the underlying disorder and the severity of symptoms. Generally, treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) boomerang dysplasia ?
Answer: Boomerang dysplasia is a disorder that affects the development of bones throughout the body. Affected individuals are born with inward- and upward-turning feet (clubfeet) and dislocations of the hips, knees, and elbows. Bones in the spine, rib cage, pelvis, and limbs may be underdeveloped or in some cases absent. As a result of the limb bone abnormalities, individuals with this condition have very short arms and legs. Pronounced bowing of the upper leg bones (femurs) gives them a "boomerang" shape.  Some individuals with boomerang dysplasia have a sac-like protrusion of the brain (encephalocele). They may also have an opening in the wall of the abdomen (an omphalocele) that allows the abdominal organs to protrude through the navel. Affected individuals typically have a distinctive nose that is broad with very small nostrils and an underdeveloped partition between the nostrils (septum).  Individuals with boomerang dysplasia typically have an underdeveloped rib cage that affects the development and functioning of the lungs. As a result, affected individuals are usually stillborn or die shortly after birth from respiratory failure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome ?
Answer: Most symptoms of Wernicke's encephalopathy can be reversed if detected and treated promptly and completely. Stopping alcohol use may prevent further nerve and brain damage. However, improvement in memory function is slow and, usually, incomplete. Without treatment, these disorders can be disabling and life-threatening.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Multiple pterygium syndrome X-linked ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Multiple pterygium syndrome X-linked? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Multiple pterygium syndrome X-linked. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal cervical curvature - Abnormal facial shape - Amyoplasia - Cleft palate - Cleft upper lip - Cystic hygroma - Depressed nasal ridge - Edema - Epicanthus - Fetal akinesia sequence - Flexion contracture - Hypertelorism - Hypoplastic heart - Increased susceptibility to fractures - Intrauterine growth retardation - Joint dislocation - Low-set ears - Malignant hyperthermia - Multiple pterygia - Polyhydramnios - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Short finger - Thin ribs - Vertebral fusion - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection ?
Answer: The urinary tract is the bodys drainage system for removing wastes and extra water. The urinary tract includes two kidneys, two ureters, a bladder, and a urethra. The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They are located near the middle of the back, just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine. Every day, the two kidneys process about 200 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine, composed of wastes and extra water. Children produce less urine than adults. The amount produced depends on their age. The urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through tubes called the ureters. The bladder stores urine until releasing it through urination. When the bladder empties, urine flows out of the body through a tube called the urethra at the bottom of the bladder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy ?
Answer: Neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy is a rare condition; its incidence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Other Myeloid Malignancies ?
Answer: Signs and symptoms of childhood AML, childhood CML, JMML, or MDS include fever, feeling tired, and easy bleeding or bruising. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by childhood AML, childhood CML, JMML, or MDS or by other conditions. Check with a doctor if your child has any of the following:         -  Fever with or without an infection.    - Night sweats.    - Shortness of breath.    - Weakness or feeling tired.    - Easy bruising or bleeding.    -  Petechiae (flat, pinpoint spots under the skin caused by bleeding).    - Pain in the bones or joints.    - Pain or feeling of fullness below the ribs.    - Painless lumps in the neck, underarm, stomach, groin, or other parts of the body. In childhood AML, these lumps, called leukemia cutis, may be blue or purple.    - Painless lumps that are sometimes around the eyes. These lumps, called chloromas, are sometimes seen in childhood AML and may be blue-green.    - An eczema -like skin rash.        The signs and symptoms of TMD may include the following:         - Swelling all over the body.    - Shortness of breath.    - Trouble breathing.    - Weakness or feeling tired.    - Pain below the ribs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Anaplasmosis ?
Answer: More detailed information on the diagnosis, management, and treatment of anaplasmosis is available in Diagnosis and Management of Tickborne Rickettsial Diseases: Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, Ehrlichioses, and Anaplasmosis  United States.
*Case definitions have been updated since publication 
 How to Contact the Rickettsial Zoonoses Branch at CDC 
 
The general public and healthcare providers should first call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) for questions regarding RMSF and other rickettsial diseases. If a consultation with a CDC scientist specializing in rickettsial diseases is advised, your call will be appropriately forwarded. 
 Case Definitions 
 
2008 Case Definition 
 Case Report Forms 
 
For confirmed and probable cases of anaplasmosis that have been identified and reported through the National Notifiable Disease Surveillance System, states are also encouraged to submit additional information using the CDC Case Report Form (CRF). This form collects additional important information that routine electronic reporting does not, such as information on how the diagnosis was made, and whether the patient was hospitalized or died. If a different state-specific form is already used to collect this information, this information may be submitted to CDC in lieu of a CRF. 
 
2010 CDC Case Report Form: Tickborne Rickettsial Diseases (2010 version) [PDF  3 pages] 
 How to Submit Specimens to CDC for RMSF Testing 
 
Private citizens may not directly submit specimens to CDC for testing. If you feel that diagnostic testing is necessary, consult your healthcare provider or state health department. 
 State Health Departments 
 
Specimens may be submitted to CDC for testing for anaplasmosis. To coordinate specimen submission, please call 404-639-1075 during business hours (8:00 - 4:30 ET). 
 U.S. Healthcare Providers: 
 
U.S. healthcare providers should not submit specimens for testing directly to CDC. CDC policy requires that specimens for testing be submitted through or with the approval of the state health department. Please contact your state health department, who will assist you with specimen submission and reporting of infection. For general questions about anaplasmosis, please call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636). If you have questions about a suspect ehrlichiosis case, please first consult your state health department. Healthcare providers requiring an epidemiologic or laboratory consultation on anaplasmosis may also call 404-639-1075 during business hours (8:00 - 4:30 ET). Or 770-488-7100 after hours. 
 Non U.S. Healthcare Providers: 
 
Non-U.S. healthcare providers should consult CDC prior to submitting specimens for testing. For general questions about anaplasmosis, please call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636). If you would like to discuss a suspect anaplasmosis case with CDC, please call 404-639-1075 during business hours (8:00 - 4:30 ET), or 770-488-7100 after hours.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What is (are) Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 1 ?
Answer: Hyper IgM syndrome is a type of primary immunodeficiency syndrome. Primary immunodeficiency occurs when part of a persons immune system is missing or does not work correctly. The bodies of people with primary immunodeficiency cant get rid of germs or protect themselves from new germs as well as they should. Primary immunodeficiencies are inherited, meaning they are passed down from parents to children. Hyper IgM syndromes are characterized by normal or elevated serum immunoglobulin M levels with absence of immunoglobulin G, A, and E. Immunoglobulins are proteins found in the blood. Hyper IgM results in a susceptibility to bacterial infections and sometimes opportunistic infections. There are five different types of hyper IgM syndromes (types 1-5). The types are distinguished by the location of the gene mutation involved.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for cerebral cavernous malformation ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of cerebral cavernous malformation:  - Angioma Alliance: Imaging and Diagnostics  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Familial Cerebral Cavernous Malformation  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cerebral cavernous malformation  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cerebral cavernous malformations 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cerebral cavernous malformations 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cerebral cavernous malformations 3  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Cerebral angiography   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Jackson-Weiss syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the FGFR2 gene cause Jackson-Weiss syndrome. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called fibroblast growth factor receptor 2. Among its multiple functions, this protein signals immature cells to become bone cells during embryonic development. A mutation in a specific part of the FGFR2 gene overstimulates signaling by the FGFR2 protein, which promotes the premature fusion of skull bones and affects the development of bones in the feet.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from a parent. The parent may be mildly affected or may be unaffected. Sometimes the parent has the gene mutation only in some or all of their sperm or egg cells, which is known as germline mosaicism. In these cases, the parent has no signs or symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Patent Ductus Arteriosus ?
Answer: If your child has patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), you may think you did something wrong during your pregnancy to cause the problem. However, the cause of patent ductus arteriosus isn't known.
                
Genetics may play a role in causing the condition. A defect in one or more genes might prevent the ductus arteriosus from closing after birth.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) X-linked intellectual disability, Siderius type ?
Answer: X-linked intellectual disability, Siderius type is a condition characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability that affects only males. Affected boys often have delayed development of motor skills such as walking, and their speech may be delayed.  Individuals with X-linked intellectual disability, Siderius type frequently also have an opening in the lip (cleft lip) with an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate). A cleft can occur on one or both sides of the upper lip.  Some boys and men with this condition have distinctive facial features, including a long face, a sloping forehead, a broad nasal bridge, a prominent bone in the lower forehead (supraorbital ridge), and outside corners of the eyes that point upward (upslanting palpebral fissures). Affected individuals may also have low-set ears and large hands.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Horner syndrome ?
Answer: Although congenital Horner syndrome can be passed down in families, no associated genes have been identified. Horner syndrome that appears after the newborn period (acquired Horner syndrome) and most cases of congenital Horner syndrome result from damage to nerves called the cervical sympathetics. These nerves belong to the part of the nervous system that controls involuntary functions (the autonomic nervous system). Within the autonomic nervous system, the nerves are part of a subdivision called the sympathetic nervous system. The cervical sympathetic nerves control several functions in the eye and face such as dilation of the pupil and sweating. Problems with the function of these nerves cause the signs and symptoms of Horner syndrome. Horner syndrome that occurs very early in life can lead to iris heterochromia because the development of the pigmentation (coloring) of the iris is under the control of the cervical sympathetic nerves.  Damage to the cervical sympathetic nerves can be caused by a direct injury to the nerves themselves, which can result from trauma that might occur during a difficult birth, surgery, or accidental injury. The nerves related to Horner syndrome can also be damaged by a benign or cancerous tumor, for example a childhood cancer of the nerve tissues called a neuroblastoma.  Horner syndrome can also be caused by problems with the artery that supplies blood to the head and neck (the carotid artery) on the affected side, resulting in loss of blood flow to the nerves. Some individuals with congenital Horner syndrome have a lack of development (agenesis) of the carotid artery. Tearing of the layers of the carotid artery wall (carotid artery dissection) can also lead to Horner syndrome.  The signs and symptoms of Horner syndrome can also occur during a migraine headache. When the headache is gone, the signs and symptoms of Horner syndrome usually also go away.  Some people with Horner syndrome have neither a known problem that would lead to nerve damage nor any history of the disorder in their family. These cases are referred to as idiopathic Horner syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Treacher Collins syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When Treacher Collins syndrome results from mutations in the TCOF1 or POLR1D gene, it is considered an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 60 percent of these cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In the remaining autosomal dominant cases, a person with Treacher Collins syndrome inherits the altered gene from an affected parent.  When Treacher Collins syndrome is caused by mutations in the POLR1C gene, the condition has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Donohue syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Diarrhea ?
Answer: Until diarrhea subsides, avoiding caffeine and foods that are greasy, high in fiber, or sweet may lessen symptoms. These foods can aggravate diarrhea. Some people also have problems digesting lactose during or after a bout of diarrhea. Yogurt, which has less lactose than milk, is often better tolerated. Yogurt with active, live bacterial cultures may even help people recover from diarrhea more quickly.
                
As symptoms improve, soft, bland foods can be added to the diet, including bananas, plain rice, boiled potatoes, toast, crackers, cooked carrots, and baked chicken without the skin or fat. For children, the health care provider may also recommend a bland diet. Once the diarrhea stops, the health care provider will likely encourage children to return to a normal and healthy diet if it can be tolerated. Infants with diarrhea should be given breast milk or full-strength formula as usual, along with oral rehydration solutions. Some children recovering from viral diarrheas have problems digesting lactose for up to a month or more.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for multiple familial trichoepithelioma ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of multiple familial trichoepithelioma:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial multiple trichoepitheliomata  - Genetic Testing Registry: Trichoepithelioma multiple familial 2   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Parkes Weber syndrome ?
Answer: How might Parkes Weber syndrome be treated? For capillary malformations (such as port wine stains) that are of cosmetic concern, individuals may be referred to a dermatologist. For arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) and arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs), the risks and benefits of intervention (i,e, embolization versus surgery) may be considered, usually with input from a multi-disciplinary team (e.g., specialists in interventional radiology, neurosurgery, surgery, cardiology, and dermatology). For risks associated with heart failure, referral to a cardiologist may be warranted. Hypertrophy (overgrowth) of the limb and/or difference in size between limbs may be treated surgically by an orthopedist. Supportive care may include compression garments (tight-fitting pieces of clothing on the affected limb to reduce pain and swelling); these may also protect the limb from bumps and scrapes, which can cause bleeding. Heel inserts may be used if the legs are different lengths, which can aid in walking normally. Various pain medications and antibiotic medications may be prescribed as needed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Bloom syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the BLM gene cause Bloom syndrome. The BLM gene provides instructions for making a member of a protein family called RecQ helicases. Helicases are enzymes that attach (bind) to DNA and unwind the two spiral strands (double helix) of the DNA molecule. This unwinding is necessary for several processes in the cell nucleus, including copying (replicating) DNA in preparation for cell division and repairing damaged DNA. Because RecQ helicases help maintain the structure and integrity of DNA, they are known as the "caretakers of the genome."  When a cell prepares to divide to form two cells, the DNA that makes up the chromosomes is copied so that each new cell will have two copies of each chromosome, one from each parent. The copied DNA from each chromosome is arranged into two identical structures, called sister chromatids, which are attached to one another during the early stages of cell division. Sister chromatids occasionally exchange small sections of DNA during this time, a process known as sister chromatid exchange. Researchers suggest that these exchanges may be a response to DNA damage during the copying process. The BLM protein helps to prevent excess sister chromatid exchanges and is also involved in other processes that help maintain the stability of the DNA during the copying process.  BLM gene mutations result in the absence of functional BLM protein. As a result, the frequency of sister chromatid exchange is about 10 times higher than average. Exchange of DNA between chromosomes derived from the individual's mother and father are also increased in people with BLM gene mutations. In addition, chromosome breakage occurs more frequently in affected individuals. All of these changes are associated with gaps and breaks in the genetic material that impair normal cell activities and cause the health problems associated with this condition. Without the BLM protein, the cell is less able to repair DNA damage caused by ultraviolet light, which results in increased sun sensitivity. Genetic changes that allow cells to divide in an uncontrolled way lead to the cancers that occur in people with Bloom syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Age-related Macular Degeneration ?
Answer: Drusen are yellow deposits under the retina. They often are found in people over age 50. Your eye care professional can detect drusen during a comprehensive dilated eye exam.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Globozoospermia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Globozoospermia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Globozoospermia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Globozoospermia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Andermann syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Andermann syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Andermann syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 90% Cognitive impairment 90% EEG abnormality 90% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 90% Microcephaly 90% Seizures 90% Aqueductal stenosis 50% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 7.5% Craniosynostosis 7.5% Myopia 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% 2-3 toe syndactyly - Agenesis of corpus callosum - Areflexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Axonal degeneration/regeneration - Brachycephaly - Decreased motor nerve conduction velocity - Decreased sensory nerve conduction velocity - EMG: chronic denervation signs - Facial asymmetry - Facial diplegia - Flexion contracture - Generalized hypotonia - High palate - Hypertelorism - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Increased CSF protein - Intellectual disability - Limb muscle weakness - Limb tremor - Long face - Low anterior hairline - Macrotia - Motor delay - Motor polyneuropathy - Narrow forehead - Neonatal hypotonia - Onion bulb formation - Peripheral axonal neuropathy - Polyneuropathy - Progressive - Psychosis - Ptosis - Respiratory tract infection - Restrictive respiratory insufficiency - Scoliosis - Sensory neuropathy - Short nose - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Tapered finger - Ventriculomegaly - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Heart Block ?
Answer: Treatment depends on the type of heart block you have. If you have first-degree heart block, you may not need treatment.
                
If you have second-degree heart block, you may need a pacemaker. A pacemaker is a small device that's placed under the skin of your chest or abdomen. This device uses electrical pulses to prompt the heart to beat at a normal rate.
                
If you have third-degree heart block, you will need a pacemaker. In an emergency, a temporary pacemaker might be used until you can get a long-term device. Most people who have third-degree heart block need pacemakers for the rest of their lives.
                
Some people who have third-degree congenital heart block don't need pacemakers for many years. Others may need pacemakers at a young age or during infancy.
                
If a pregnant woman has an autoimmune disease, such as lupus, her fetus is at risk for heart block. If heart block is detected in a fetus, the mother might be given medicine to reduce the fetus' risk of developing serious heart block.
                
Sometimes acquired heart block goes away if the factor causing it is treated or resolved. For example, heart block that occurs after a heart attack or surgery may go away during recovery.
                
Also, if a medicine is causing heart block, the condition may go away if the medicine is stopped or the dosage is lowered. (Always talk with your doctor before you change the way you take your medicines.)
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: Is Hereditary multiple osteochondromas inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary multiple osteochondromas inherited? HMO is caused by mutations in the EXT1 and EXT2 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause this condition. In most cases, an affected individual inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. Most affected individuals (96%) that have inherited a gene mutation from their parent show signs and symptoms of this condition. However, the family history may appear negative because of the failure to recognize the disorder in family members and/or reduced penetrance. Reports have suggested that some females may not show clinical features of HMO but still have the gene mutation that causes this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Hypoglycemia ?
Answer: Diabetes Medications
                
Hypoglycemia can occur as a side effect of some diabetes medications, including insulin and oral diabetes medicationspillsthat increase insulin production, such as
                
- chlorpropamide (Diabinese)  - glimepiride (Amaryl)  - glipizide (Glucotrol, Glucotrol XL)  - glyburide (DiaBeta, Glynase, Micronase)  - nateglinide (Starlix)  - repaglinide (Prandin)  - sitagliptin (Januvia)  - tolazamide  - tolbutamide
                
Certain combination pills can also cause hypoglycemia, including
                
- glipizide + metformin (Metaglip)  - glyburide + metformin (Glucovance)  - pioglitazone + glimepiride (Duetact)  - rosiglitazone + glimepiride (Avandaryl)  - sitagliptin + metformin (Janumet)
                
Other types of diabetes pills, when taken alone, do not cause hypoglycemia. Examples of these medications are
                
- acarbose (Precose)  - metformin (Glucophage)  - miglitol (Glyset)  - pioglitazone (Actos)  - rosiglitazone (Avandia)
                
However, taking these pills along with other diabetes medicationsinsulin, pills that increase insulin production, or bothincreases the risk of hypoglycemia.
                
In addition, use of the following injectable medications can cause hypoglycemia:
                
- Pramlintide (Symlin), which is used along with insulin  - Exenatide (Byetta), which can cause hypoglycemia when used in combination with chlorpropamide, glimepiride, glipizide, glyburide, tolazamide, and tolbutamide
                
More information about diabetes medications is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines, or by calling 18008608747.
                
Other Causes of Hypoglycemia
                
In people on insulin or pills that increase insulin production, low blood glucose can be due to
                
- meals or snacks that are too small, delayed, or skipped  - increased physical activity  - alcoholic beverages
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Brachydactyly type A4 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Brachydactyly type A4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Brachydactyly type A4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Short toe 90% Short stature 50% Symphalangism affecting the phalanges of the hand 50% Aplasia of the middle phalanges of the toes - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Congenital talipes calcaneovalgus - Short middle phalanx of the 2nd finger - Short middle phalanx of the 5th finger - Type A brachydactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Diagnosis of Diabetes and Prediabetes ?
Answer: Diabetes is a complex group of diseases with a variety of causes. People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia.
                
Diabetes is a disorder of metabolismthe way the body uses digested food for energy. The digestive tract breaks down carbohydratessugars and starches found in many foodsinto glucose, a form of sugar that enters the bloodstream. With the help of the hormone insulin, cells throughout the body absorb glucose and use it for energy. Insulin is made in the pancreas, an organ located behind the stomach. As the blood glucose level rises after a meal, the pancreas is triggered to release insulin. Within the pancreas, clusters of cells called islets contain beta cells, which make the insulin and release it into the blood.
                
Diabetes develops when the body doesnt make enough insulin or is not able to use insulin effectively, or both. As a result, glucose builds up in the blood instead of being absorbed by cells in the body. The bodys cells are then starved of energy despite high blood glucose levels.
                
Over time, high blood glucose damages nerves and blood vessels, leading to complications such as heart disease, stroke, kidney disease, blindness, dental disease, and amputations. Other complications of diabetes may include increased susceptibility to other diseases, loss of mobility with aging, depression, and pregnancy problems.
                
Main Types of Diabetes
                
The three main types of diabetes are type 1, type 2, and gestational diabetes:
                
- Type 1 diabetes, formerly called juvenile diabetes, is usually first diagnosed in children, teenagers, and young adults. In this type of diabetes, the beta cells of the pancreas no longer make insulin because the bodys immune system has attacked and destroyed them.  - Type 2 diabetes, formerly called adult-onset diabetes, is the most common type of diabetes. About 90 to 95 percent of people with diabetes have type 2.1 People can develop type 2 diabetes at any age, even during childhood, but this type of diabetes is most often associated with older age. Type 2 diabetes is also associated with excess weight, physical inactivity, family history of diabetes, previous history of gestational diabetes, and certain ethnicities.   Type 2 diabetes usually begins with insulin resistance, a condition linked to excess weight in which muscle, liver, and fat cells do not use insulin properly. As a result, the body needs more insulin to help glucose enter cells to be used for energy. At first, the pancreas keeps up with the added demand by producing more insulin. But in time, the pancreas loses its ability to produce enough insulin in response to meals, and blood glucose levels rise.  - Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that develops only during pregnancy.  The hormones produced during pregnancy increase the amount of insulin needed to control blood glucose levels. If the body cant meet this increased need for insulin, women can develop gestational diabetes during the late stages of pregnancy.  Gestational diabetes usually goes away after the baby is born. Shortly after pregnancy, 5 to 10 percent of women with gestational diabetes continue to have high blood glucose levels and are diagnosed as having diabetes, usually type 2.1 Research has shown that lifestyle changes and the diabetes medication, metformin, can reduce or delay the risk of type 2 diabetes in these women. Babies born to mothers who had gestational diabetes are also more likely to develop obesity and type 2 diabetes as they grow up.  More information about gestational diabetes is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Gestational Diabetes,or by calling 18008608747.
                
Other Types of Diabetes
                
Many other types of diabetes exist, and a person can exhibit characteristics of more than one type. For example, in latent autoimmune diabetes in adults, people show signs of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Other types of diabetes include those caused by genetic defects, diseases of the pancreas, excess amounts of certain hormones resulting from some medical conditions, medications that reduce insulin action, chemicals that destroy beta cells, infections, rare autoimmune disorders, and genetic syndromes associated with diabetes.
                
More information about other types of diabetes is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Causes of Diabetes, or by calling 18008608747.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Serpiginous choroiditis ?
Answer: Serpiginous choroiditis is a rare inflammatory eye condition that typically develops between age 30 and 70 years. Affected individuals have lesions in the eye that last from weeks to months and involve scarring of the eye tissue. Recurrence of these lesions is common in serpiginous choroiditis. Vision loss may occur in one or both eyes when the macula is involved. Treatment options involve anti-inflammatory and immune-suppressing medications.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy is a group of disorders which affect the voluntary muscles around the hips and shoulders. The conditions are progressive, leading to a loss of muscle strength and bulk over a number of years. Onset may occur in childhood, adolescence, young adulthood, or even later. Males and females are affected in equal numbers. Most forms of limb girdle muscular dystrophy are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Several rare forms are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. While there are no treatments which directly reverse the muscle weakness associated with this condition, supportive treatment can decrease the complications. There are at least 20 different types of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Apert syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Apert syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: FGFR-Related Craniosynostosis Syndromes  - Genetic Testing Registry: Acrocephalosyndactyly type I  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Apert syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Webbing of the fingers or toes   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) mucopolysaccharidosis type II ?
Answer: Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II), also known as Hunter syndrome, is a condition that affects many different parts of the body and occurs almost exclusively in males. It is a progressively debilitating disorder; however, the rate of progression varies among affected individuals.  At birth, individuals with MPS II do not display any features of the condition. Between ages 2 and 4, they develop full lips, large rounded cheeks, a broad nose, and an enlarged tongue (macroglossia). The vocal cords also enlarge, which results in a deep, hoarse voice. Narrowing of the airway causes frequent upper respiratory infections and short pauses in breathing during sleep (sleep apnea). As the disorder progresses, individuals need medical assistance to keep their airway open.  Many other organs and tissues are affected in MPS II. Individuals with this disorder often have a large head (macrocephaly), a buildup of fluid in the brain (hydrocephalus), an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly), and a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia) or lower abdomen (inguinal hernia). People with MPS II usually have thick skin that is not very stretchy. Some affected individuals also have distinctive white skin growths that look like pebbles. Most people with this disorder develop hearing loss and have recurrent ear infections. Some individuals with MPS II develop problems with the light-sensitive tissue in the back of the eye (retina) and have reduced vision. Carpal tunnel syndrome commonly occurs in children with this disorder and is characterized by numbness, tingling, and weakness in the hand and fingers. Narrowing of the spinal canal (spinal stenosis) in the neck can compress and damage the spinal cord. The heart is also significantly affected by MPS II, and many individuals develop heart valve problems. Heart valve abnormalities can cause the heart to become enlarged (ventricular hypertrophy) and can eventually lead to heart failure.  Children with MPS II grow steadily until about age 5, and then their growth slows and they develop short stature. Individuals with this condition have joint deformities (contractures) that significantly affect mobility. Most people with MPS II also have dysostosis multiplex, which refers to multiple skeletal abnormalities seen on x-ray. Dysostosis multiplex includes a generalized thickening of most long bones, particularly the ribs.  There are two types of MPS II, called the severe and mild types. While both types affect many different organs and tissues as described above, people with severe MPS II also experience a decline in intellectual function and a more rapid disease progression. Individuals with the severe form begin to lose basic functional skills (developmentally regress) between the ages of 6 and 8. The life expectancy of these individuals is 10 to 20 years. Individuals with mild MPS II also have a shortened lifespan, but they typically live into adulthood and their intelligence is not affected. Heart disease and airway obstruction are major causes of death in people with both types of MPS II.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Familial hemiplegic migraine type 1 ?
Answer: Familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) is a form of migraine headache that runs in families. Migraines usually cause intense, throbbing pain in one area of the head, often accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and extreme sensitivity to light and sound. These recurrent headaches typically begin in childhood or adolescence and may last from a few hours to a few days. People with familial hemiplegic migraine experience an aura that comes before the headache. The most common symptoms associated with an aura are temporary visual changes such as blind spots (scotomas), flashing lights, zig-zagging lines, and double vision. In people with familial hemiplegic migraine, auras are also characterized by temporary numbness or weakness, often affecting one side of the body (hemiparesis). An aura typically develops gradually over a few minutes and lasts about an hour. Researchers have identified three forms of familial hemiplegic migraine known as FHM1, FHM2, and FHM3. Each of the three types is caused by mutations in a different gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) High Blood Pressure ?
Answer: Older adults should limit their sodium (salt) intake to 1,500 mg a day. That's about 2/3 of a teaspoon of salt. Here are tips to reduce salt in your diet. - Buy fresh, plain frozen, or canned with no salt added vegetables. Choose foods packed in water instead of broth or salt.   -  Use fresh poultry, fish, and lean meat, rather than canned or processed types.  - Use herbs, spices, and salt-free seasoning blends in cooking and at the table.  - Cook rice, pasta, and hot cereal without salt. Cut back on instant or flavored rice, pasta, and cereal mixes, which usually have added salt.  - Choose convenience foods that are low in sodium. Cut back on frozen dinners, pizza, packaged mixes, canned soups or broths, and salad dressingsthese often have a lot of sodium.  - Rinse canned foods, such as tuna, to remove some sodium.  - When available, buy low- or reduced-sodium or no-salt-added versions of foods.   - Choose ready-to-eat breakfast cereals that are low in sodium.  Buy fresh, plain frozen, or canned with no salt added vegetables. Choose foods packed in water instead of broth or salt. Use fresh poultry, fish, and lean meat, rather than canned or processed types. Use herbs, spices, and salt-free seasoning blends in cooking and at the table. Cook rice, pasta, and hot cereal without salt. Cut back on instant or flavored rice, pasta, and cereal mixes, which usually have added salt. Choose convenience foods that are low in sodium. Cut back on frozen dinners, pizza, packaged mixes, canned soups or broths, and salad dressingsthese often have a lot of sodium. Rinse canned foods, such as tuna, to remove some sodium. When available, buy low- or reduced-sodium or no-salt-added versions of foods. Choose ready-to-eat breakfast cereals that are low in sodium.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Liver (Hepatocellular) Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Liver cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the liver.    - Liver cancer is not common in the United States.    - Being infected with certain types of the hepatitis virus can cause hepatitis and increase the risk of liver cancer.         - Hepatitis A     - Hepatitis B     - Hepatitis C     - Hepatitis D     - Hepatitis E     - Hepatitis G
                
                
                    Liver cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the liver.
                    The liver is one of the largest organs in the body. It has four lobes and fills the upper right side of the abdomen inside the rib cage. Three of the many important functions of the liver are:         - To filter harmful substances from the blood so they can be passed from the body in stools and urine.    - To make bile to help digest fats from food.     - To store glycogen (sugar), which the body uses for energy.          See the following PDQ summaries for more information about liver (hepatocellular) cancer:         -  Liver (Hepatocellular) Cancer Screening     -  Adult Primary Liver Cancer Treatment     -  Childhood Liver Cancer Treatment
                
                
                    Liver cancer is not common in the United States.
                    Liver cancer is the fourth most common cancer and the third leading cause of cancer death in the world. In the United States, men, especially Asian/Pacific Islander men, have an increased risk of liver cancer. The number of new cases of liver cancer and the number of deaths from liver cancer continue to increase, especially among middle-aged black, Hispanic, and white men. People are usually older than 40 years when they develop this cancer.    Finding and treating liver cancer early may prevent death from liver cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How to prevent Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome ?
Answer: A person should stay away from known triggers, especially during the well phase, as well as
                
- get adequate sleep to prevent exhaustion  - treat sinus problems or allergies  - seek help on reducing stress and anxiety  - avoid foods that trigger episodes or foods with additives
                
A health care provider may refer people with cyclic vomiting syndrome and anxiety to a stress management specialist for relaxation therapy or other treatments.
                
A health care provider may prescribe medications to prevent migraines for people with cyclic vomiting syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Greenberg dysplasia ?
Answer: Mutations in the LBR gene cause Greenberg dysplasia. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called the lamin B receptor. One region of this protein, called the sterol reductase domain, plays an important role in the production (synthesis) of cholesterol. Cholesterol is a type of fat that is produced in the body and obtained from foods that come from animals: eggs, meat, fish, and dairy products. Cholesterol is necessary for normal embryonic development and has important functions both before and after birth. Cholesterol is an important component of cell membranes and the protective substance covering nerve cells (myelin). Additionally, cholesterol plays a role in the production of certain hormones and digestive acids. During cholesterol synthesis, the sterol reductase function of the lamin B receptor allows the protein to perform one of several steps that convert a molecule called lanosterol to cholesterol.  LBR gene mutations involved in Greenberg dysplasia lead to loss of the sterol reductase function of the lamin B receptor, and research suggests that this loss causes the condition. Absence of the sterol reductase function disrupts the normal synthesis of cholesterol within cells. This absence may also allow potentially toxic byproducts of cholesterol synthesis to build up in the body's tissues. Researchers suspect that low cholesterol levels or an accumulation of other substances disrupts the growth and development of many parts of the body. It is not known, however, how a disturbance of cholesterol synthesis leads to the specific features of Greenberg dysplasia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for autosomal dominant partial epilepsy with auditory features ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of ADPEAF:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Autosomal Dominant Partial Epilepsy with Auditory Features  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epilepsy, lateral temporal lobe, autosomal dominant  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Partial (Focal) Seizure  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Seizures   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is benign essential blepharospasm inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of benign essential blepharospasm are sporadic, which means that the condition occurs in people with no history of this disorder or other forms of dystonia in their family.  Less commonly, benign essential blepharospasm has been found to run in families. In some of these families, the condition appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, no causative genes have been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is juvenile polyposis syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Juvenile polyposis syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In approximately 75 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining 25 percent of cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Joubert syndrome ?
Answer: Joubert syndrome and related disorders can be caused by mutations in at least 10 genes. The proteins produced from these genes are known or suspected to play roles in cell structures called cilia. Cilia are microscopic, finger-like projections that stick out from the surface of cells and are involved in chemical signaling. Cilia are important for the structure and function of many types of cells, including brain cells (neurons) and certain cells in the kidneys and liver. Cilia are also necessary for the perception of sensory input (such as sight, hearing, and smell).  Mutations in the genes associated with Joubert syndrome and related disorders lead to problems with the structure and function of cilia. Defects in these cell structures probably disrupt important chemical signaling pathways during development. Although researchers believe that defective cilia are responsible for most of the features of these disorders, it remains unclear how they lead to specific developmental abnormalities.  Mutations in the 10 genes known to be associated with Joubert syndrome and related disorders only account for about half of all cases of these conditions. In the remaining cases, the genetic cause is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for mucopolysaccharidosis type II ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of mucopolysaccharidosis type II:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Mucopolysaccharidosis Type II  - Genetic Testing Registry: Mucopolysaccharidosis, MPS-II  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hunter syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Mucopolysaccharides   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Familial osteochondritis dissecans ?
Answer: What causes osteochondritis dissecans? In most cases, the exact underlying cause of osteochondritis dissecans is not completely understood. Scientists suspect that it may be due to decreased blood flow to the end of the affected bone, which may occur when repetitive episodes of minor injury and/or stress damage a bone overtime. In some families, osteochondritis dissecans is caused by changes (mutations) in the ACAN gene. In these cases, which are referred to as familial osteochondritis dissecans, the condition generally affects multiple joints and is also associated with short stature and early-onset osteoarthritis. The ACAN gene encodes a protein that is important to the structure of cartilage. Mutations in this gene weaken cartilage, which leads to the various signs and symptoms of familial osteochondritis disssecans.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Encephaloceles ?
Answer: Encephaloceles are rare neural tube defects characterized by sac-like protrusions of the brain and the membranes that cover it through openings in the skull. These defects are caused by failure of the neural tube to close completely during fetal development. The result is a groove down the midline of the upper part of the skull, or the area between the forehead and nose, or the back of the skull. When located in the back of the skull, encephaloceles are often associated with neurological problems. Usually encephaloceles are dramatic deformities diagnosed immediately after birth, but occasionally a small encephalocele in the nasal and forehead region can go undetected. Encephaloceles are often accompanied by craniofacial abnormalities or other brain malformations. Symptoms and associated abnormalities of encephaloceles may include hydrocephalus (excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the brain), spastic quadriplegia (paralysis of the arms and legs), microcephaly (abnormally small head), ataxia (uncoordinated movement of the voluntary muscles, such as those involved in walking and reaching), developmental delay, vision problems, mental and growth retardation, and seizures. Some affected children may have normal intelligence. There is a genetic component to the condition; it often occurs in families with a history of spina bifida and anencephaly in family members.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is GM1 gangliosidosis inherited ?
Answer: How is GM1 gangliosidosis inherited? GM1 gangliosidosis is a hereditary condition that is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has: a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent a 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier GM1 gangliosidosis is type-specific within families. This means that people with a family history of the condition are generally only at increased risk for the specific type of GM1 gangliosidosis in the family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Ectodermal dysplasia adrenal cyst ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Ectodermal dysplasia adrenal cyst? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ectodermal dysplasia adrenal cyst. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the endocrine system - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Breast hypoplasia - Delayed eruption of teeth - Ectodermal dysplasia - Hypohidrosis - Hypoplastic nipples - Nail dysplasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by vitiligo ?
Answer: Vitiligo is a common disorder, affecting between 0.5 percent and 1 percent of the population worldwide. While the condition may be more noticeable in dark-skinned people, it occurs with similar frequency in all ethnic groups.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia autosomal recessive 7 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia autosomal recessive 7? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia autosomal recessive 7. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Cerebellar atrophy - Clumsiness - Diplopia - Dysarthria - Gait ataxia - Hypermetric saccades - Hyperreflexia - Juvenile onset - Limb ataxia - Nystagmus - Postural tremor - Saccadic smooth pursuit - Slow progression - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Richter syndrome ?
Answer: Richter syndrome is a rare condition in which chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) changes into a fast-growing type of lymphoma. Symptoms of Richter syndrome can include fever, loss of weight and muscle mass, abdominal pain, and enlargement of the lymph nodes, liver, and spleen. Laboratory results may show anemia and low platelet counts (which can lead to easy bleeding and bruising).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Nuclear Gene-Encoded Leigh Syndrome ?
Answer: Nuclear gene-encoded Leigh syndrome is a progressive neurological disease. It usually first becomes apparent in infancy with developmental delay or regression. Rarely, the disease begins in adolescence or adulthood. Symptoms progress to include generalized weakness, lack of muscle tone, spasticity, movement disorders, cerebellar ataxia, and peripheral neuropathy. Other signs and symptoms may include an increase in the heart muscle size (hypertrophic cardiomyopathy); excessive body hair (hypertrichosis); anemia; kidney or liver problems; and lung or heart failure. Nuclear gene-encoded Leigh syndrome (and Leigh-like syndrome, a term used for cases with similar features but that do not fulfill the diagnostic criteria for Leigh syndrome) may be caused by mutations in any of several genes and can be inherited in an autosomal recessive or X-linked manner. While treatment for some cases of Leigh-like syndrome may be available, management is generally supportive and focuses on the symptoms present.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Gray platelet syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Gray platelet syndrome? Signs and symptoms usually appear at birth or in early childhood and include low platelet counts, easy bruising, prolonged bleeding, and nose bleeds. Affected individuals often have myelofibrosis and splenomegaly. Bleeding tendency is usually mild to moderate in those with mild thrombocytopenia. However, the thrombocytopenia and myelofibrosis are usually progressive in nature. GPS may result in fatal hemorrhage (bleeding), especially in adulthood when platelet counts are further decreased. Female patients may develop heavy menstrual bleeding. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Gray platelet syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of coagulation 90% Bruising susceptibility 90% Thrombocytopenia 90% Abnormality of the menstrual cycle 50% Epistaxis 50% Myelodysplasia 50% Splenomegaly 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Impaired collagen-induced platelet aggregation - Impaired thrombin-induced platelet aggregation - Menorrhagia - Myelofibrosis - Progressive - Prolonged bleeding time - Reduced quantity of Von Willebrand factor - Reduced von Willebrand factor activity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Polycystic liver disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Polycystic liver disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Polycystic liver disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hepatomegaly 90% Polycystic kidney dysplasia 50% Abdominal pain 7.5% Abnormality of the pancreas 7.5% Aneurysm 7.5% Elevated alkaline phosphatase 7.5% Feeding difficulties in infancy 7.5% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Abdominal distention - Abnormality of the cardiovascular system - Abnormality of the nervous system - Ascites - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Back pain - Increased total bilirubin - Polycystic liver disease - Renal cyst - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is desmoid tumor inherited ?
Answer: Most desmoid tumors are sporadic and are not inherited. Sporadic tumors result from gene mutations that occur during a person's lifetime, called somatic mutations. A somatic mutation in one copy of the gene is sufficient to cause the disorder. Somatic mutations in either the CTNNB1 or the APC gene can cause sporadic desmoid tumors.  An inherited mutation in one copy of the APC gene causes familial adenomatous polyposis and predisposes affected individuals to develop desmoid tumors. The desmoid tumors occur when a somatic mutation occurs in the second copy of the APC gene. In these cases, the condition is sometimes called hereditary desmoid disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 1? Symptoms and physical findings associated with hyper IgM syndrome usually become apparent in the first or second year of life. This condition may be characterized by recurrent pus-producing (pyogenic) bacterial infections of the upper and lower respiratory tract including the sinuses (sinusitis) and/or the lungs (pneumonitis or pneumonia); the middle ear (otitis media); the membrane that lines the eyelids and the white portions (sclera) of the eyes (conjunctivitis); the skin (pyoderma); and/or, in some cases, other areas. Other signs of the disease include enlarged tonsils, liver, and spleen, chronic diarrhea, and an increased risk of unusual or opportunistic infections and non-Hodgkins lymphoma. Opportunistic infections are infections caused by microorganisms that usually do not cause disease in individuals with fully functioning immune systems (non-immunocompromised) or widespread (systemic) overwhelming disease by microorganisms that typically cause only localized, mild infections. In individuals with Hyper-IgM Syndrome, such opportunistic infections may include those caused by Pneumocystis carinii, a microorganism that causes a form of pneumonia, or Cryptosporidium, a single-celled parasite (protozoa) that can cause infections of the intestinal tract. In addition, individuals with Hyper-IgM Syndrome are prone to certain autoimmune disorders affecting particular elements of the blood. Autoimmune attacks on red blood cells lead to anemia, while autoimmune destruction of infection-fighting neutrophils further increases the risk of infection. The range and severity of symptoms and physical features associated with this disorder may vary from case to case. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Absence of lymph node germinal center - Autoimmune hemolytic anemia - Autoimmune thrombocytopenia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bronchiectasis - Decreased T cell activation - Diarrhea - Dysgammaglobulinemia - Epididymitis - Gingivitis - Hemolytic anemia - Hepatitis - Hepatomegaly - IgA deficiency - IgE deficiency - IgG deficiency - Immunodeficiency - Impaired Ig class switch recombination - Impaired memory B-cell generation - Increased IgM level - Lymphadenopathy - Myelodysplasia - Neutropenia - Osteomyelitis - Recurrent bacterial infections - Recurrent infection of the gastrointestinal tract - Recurrent respiratory infections - Recurrent upper and lower respiratory tract infections - Recurrent upper respiratory tract infections - Splenomegaly - Stomatitis - Thrombocytopenia - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita ?
Answer: What causes X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita? X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita is caused by mutations in the NR0B1 gene. The NR0B1 gene provides instructions to make a protein called DAX1. This protein plays an important role in the development and function of several hormone-producing tissues including the adrenal glands, two hormone-secreting glands in the brain (the hypothalamus and pituitary), and the gonads (ovaries in females and testes in males). The hormones produced by these glands control many important body functions. Some NR0B1 mutations result in the production of an inactive version of the DAX1 protein, while other mutations delete the entire gene. The resulting shortage of DAX1 disrupts the normal development and function of hormone-producing tissues in the body. The signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism occur when endocrine glands do not produce the right amounts of certain hormones.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Myotonia Congenita ?
Answer: Most people with myotonia congenita dont require special treatments. Stiff muscles usually resolve with exercise, or light movement, especially after resting. For individuals whose symptoms are more limiting, doctors have had some success with medications such as quinine, or anticonvulsant drugs such as phenytoin. Physical therapy and other rehabilitative therapies are also sometimes used to improve muscle function.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Familial Mediterranean fever ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Familial Mediterranean fever? Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is characterized by relatively short, usually 1- to 3-day, episodes of fever accompanied by abdominal pain, chest pain, joint pain, pelvic pain, muscle aches, and/or a skin rash. The muscle pain is often confused with fibromyalgia and the joint pain is sometimes confused with gout. The pain symptoms are usually the result of inflammation in the lining of the abdomen, lungs, joints, heart, pelvis, and/or in the membrane that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. Headaches and amyloidosis may also occur. The majority of people with FMF experience their first episode by age 20. The frequency of such attacks is highly variable and the interval between attacks ranges from days to years. The frequency and symptoms experienced during an attack may also change over time. People tend to be symptom-free between attacks. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial Mediterranean fever. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abdominal pain 90% Abnormality of temperature regulation 90% Arthralgia 90% Constipation 90% Myalgia 90% Nausea and vomiting 90% Abnormality of the oral cavity 50% Abnormality of the pleura 50% Chest pain 50% Diarrhea 50% Erysipelas 50% Proteinuria 50% Seizures 50% Abnormality of the pericardium 7.5% Acute hepatic failure 7.5% Arrhythmia 7.5% Ascites 7.5% Coronary artery disease 7.5% Edema of the lower limbs 7.5% Gastrointestinal infarctions 7.5% Intestinal obstruction 7.5% Lymphadenopathy 7.5% Malabsorption 7.5% Meningitis 7.5% Nephrocalcinosis 7.5% Nephropathy 7.5% Nephrotic syndrome 7.5% Orchitis 7.5% Osteoarthritis 7.5% Pancreatitis 7.5% Skin rash 7.5% Splenomegaly 7.5% Vasculitis 7.5% Arthritis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate - Episodic fever - Hepatomegaly - Leukocytosis - Pericarditis - Peritonitis - Pleuritis - Renal amyloidosis - Renal insufficiency - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: Currently, the best available therapy is reversal of the immune-deficient state, since there are no effective drugs that block virus infection without toxicity. Reversal may be achieved by using plasma exchange to accelerate the removal of the therapeutic agents that put patients at risk for PML. In the case of HIV-associated PML, immediately beginning anti-retroviral therapy will benefit most individuals. Several new drugs that laboratory tests found effective against infection are being used in PML patients with special permission of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Hexadecyloxypropyl-Cidofovir (CMX001) is currently being studied as a treatment option for JVC because of its ability to suppress JVC by inhibiting viral DNA replication.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Shoulder Injuries and Disorders ?
Answer: Your shoulder joint is composed of three bones: the clavicle (collarbone), the scapula (shoulder blade), and the humerus (upper arm bone). Your shoulders are the most movable joints in your body. They can also be unstable because the ball of the upper arm is larger than the shoulder socket that holds it. To remain in a stable or normal position, the shoulder must be anchored by muscles, tendons and ligaments. Because the shoulder can be unstable, it is the site of many common problems. They include sprains, strains, dislocations, separations, tendinitis, bursitis, torn rotator cuffs, frozen shoulder, fractures and arthritis.     Usually shoulder problems are treated with RICE. This stands for Rest, Ice, Compression and Elevation. Other treatments include exercise, medicines to reduce pain and swelling, and surgery if other treatments don't work.    NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) hereditary spherocytosis ?
Answer: Hereditary spherocytosis is a condition that affects red blood cells. People with this condition typically experience a shortage of red blood cells (anemia), yellowing of the eyes and skin (jaundice), and an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly). Most newborns with hereditary spherocytosis have severe anemia, although it improves after the first year of life. Splenomegaly can occur anytime from early childhood to adulthood. About half of affected individuals develop hard deposits in the gallbladder called gallstones, which typically occur from late childhood to mid-adulthood.  There are four forms of hereditary spherocytosis, which are distinguished by the severity of signs and symptoms. They are known as the mild form, the moderate form, the moderate/severe form, and the severe form. It is estimated that 20 to 30 percent of people with hereditary spherocytosis have the mild form, 60 to 70 percent have the moderate form, 10 percent have the moderate/severe form, and 3 to 5 percent have the severe form.  People with the mild form may have very mild anemia or sometimes have no symptoms. People with the moderate form typically have anemia, jaundice, and splenomegaly. Many also develop gallstones. The signs and symptoms of moderate hereditary spherocytosis usually appear in childhood. Individuals with the moderate/severe form have all the features of the moderate form but also have severe anemia. Those with the severe form have life-threatening anemia that requires frequent blood transfusions to replenish their red blood cell supply. They also have severe splenomegaly, jaundice, and a high risk for developing gallstones. Some individuals with the severe form have short stature, delayed sexual development, and skeletal abnormalities.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Ohdo syndrome, Say-Barber-Biesecker-Young-Simpson variant ?
Answer: The SBBYS variant of Ohdo syndrome is caused by mutations in the KAT6B gene. This gene provides instructions for making a type of enzyme called a histone acetyltransferase. These enzymes modify histones, which are structural proteins that attach (bind) to DNA and give chromosomes their shape. By adding a small molecule called an acetyl group to histones, histone acetyltransferases control the activity of certain genes. Little is known about the function of the histone acetyltransferase produced from the KAT6B gene. It appears to regulate genes that are important for early development, including development of the skeleton and nervous system.  The mutations that cause the SBBYS variant of Ohdo syndrome likely prevent the production of functional histone acetyltransferase from one copy of the KAT6B gene in each cell. Studies suggest that the resulting shortage of this enzyme impairs the regulation of various genes during early development. However, it is unclear how these changes lead to the specific features of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Meningitis ?
Answer: Meningitis is inflammation of the thin tissue that surrounds the brain and spinal cord, called the meninges. There are several types of meningitis. The most common is viral meningitis, which you get when a virus enters the body through the nose or mouth and travels to the brain. Bacterial meningitis is rare, but can be deadly. It usually starts with bacteria that cause a cold-like infection. It can block blood vessels in the brain and lead to stroke and brain damage. It can also harm other organs. Pneumococcal infections and meningococcal infections can cause bacterial meningitis.    Anyone can get meningitis, but it is more common in people whose bodies have trouble fighting infections. Meningitis can progress rapidly. You should seek medical care quickly if you have       - A sudden fever     - A severe headache     - A stiff neck        Early treatment can help prevent serious problems, including death. Vaccines can prevent some of the bacterial infections that cause meningitis. Parents of adolescents and students living in college dorms should talk to a doctor about the vaccination.     NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Ankylosis of teeth ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Ankylosis of teeth? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ankylosis of teeth. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Reduced number of teeth 90% Abnormality of dental enamel 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Mandibular prognathia 7.5% Abnormality of the teeth - Autosomal dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Noonan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Noonan syndrome inherited? Noonan syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause the condition. Each child of a person with Noonan syndrome has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the condition. In some cases, the condition is inherited from an affected parent. Because the features of the condition can vary and may be very subtle, many affected adults are diagnosed only after the birth of a more obviously affected infant. In other cases, the condition is caused by a new mutation occurring for the first time in the affected person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency is a disorder that can cause a variety of neurological problems. People with this condition typically have developmental delay, especially involving speech development; intellectual disability; and decreased muscle tone (hypotonia) soon after birth. About half of those affected experience seizures, difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia), decreased reflexes (hyporeflexia), and behavioral problems. The most common behavioral problems associated with this condition are sleep disturbances, hyperactivity, difficulty maintaining attention, and anxiety. Less frequently, affected individuals may have increased aggression, hallucinations, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), and self-injurious behavior, including biting and head banging. People with this condition can also have problems controlling eye movements. Less common features of succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency include uncontrollable movements of the limbs (choreoathetosis), involuntary tensing of the muscles (dystonia), muscle twitches (myoclonus), and a progressive worsening of ataxia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Brachydactyly type A6 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Brachydactyly type A6? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Brachydactyly type A6. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the vertebral column - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the middle phalanges of the hand - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bipartite calcaneus - Broad finger - Broad toe - Carpal synostosis - Decreased finger mobility - Dysplastic distal radial epiphyses - Fibular hypoplasia - Hypoplasia of the radius - Hypoplasia of the ulna - Mesomelia - Radial deviation of finger - Short phalanx of finger - Short stature - Short tibia - Short toe - Tarsal synostosis - Type A brachydactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Familial Mediterranean fever ?
Answer: Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is an inherited condition characterized by episodes of painful inflammation of the abdominal lining (peritonitis),  lining surrounding the lungs (pleurisy), and joints (arthralgia and occasionally arthritis). These episodes are often accompanied by fever and sometimes a characteristic ankle rash. The first episode usually occurs in childhood or the teenage years, but in some cases, the initial attack occurs much later in life. Between attacks, people often do not have any symptoms. Without treatment, FMF can lead to kidney failure due to a buildup of certain protein deposits (amyloidosis). FMF is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and is caused by mutations in the MEFV gene. Treatment for FMF often involves use of a medication called colchicine.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Lesch-Nyhan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) spondyloenchondrodysplasia with immune dysregulation ?
Answer: Spondyloenchondrodysplasia with immune dysregulation (SPENCDI) is an inherited condition that primarily affects bone growth and immune system function. The signs and symptoms of SPENCDI can become apparent anytime from infancy to adolescence.  Bone abnormalities in individuals with SPENCDI include flattened spinal bones (platyspondyly), abnormalities at the ends of long bones in the limbs (metaphyseal dysplasia), and areas of damage (lesions) on the long bones and spinal bones that can be seen on x-rays. Additional skeletal problems occur because of abnormalities of the tough, flexible tissue called cartilage that makes up much of the skeleton during early development. Individuals with SPENCDI often have areas where cartilage did not convert to bone. They may also have noncancerous growths of cartilage (enchondromas). The bone and cartilage problems contribute to short stature in people with SPENCDI.  Individuals with SPENCDI have a combination of immune system problems. Many affected individuals have malfunctioning immune systems that attack the body's own tissues and organs, which is known as an autoimmune reaction. The malfunctioning immune system can lead to a variety of disorders, such as a decrease in blood cells called platelets (thrombocytopenia), premature destruction of red blood cells (hemolytic anemia), an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism), or chronic inflammatory disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis. In addition, affected individuals often have abnormal immune cells that cannot grow and divide in response to harmful invaders such as bacteria and viruses. As a result of this immune deficiency, these individuals have frequent fevers and recurrent respiratory infections.  Some people with SPENCDI have neurological problems such as abnormal muscle stiffness (spasticity), difficulty with coordinating movements (ataxia), and intellectual disability. They may also have abnormal deposits of calcium (calcification) in the brain.  Due to the range of immune system problems, people with SPENCDI typically have a shortened life expectancy, but figures vary widely.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Henoch-Schnlein Purpura ?
Answer: No specific treatment for HSP exists. The main goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms such as joint pain, abdominal pain, and swelling. People with kidney involvement may receive treatment aimed at preventing long-term kidney disease.
                
Treatment is rarely required for the rash. Joint pain is often treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, such as aspirin or ibuprofen. Recent research has shown corticosteroidsmedications that decrease swelling and reduce the activity of the immune systemto be even more effective in treating joint pain. Corticosteroids are also used to treat abdominal pain.
                
Though rare, surgery may be needed to treat intussusception or to determine the cause of swollen testicles.
                
HSP that affects the kidneys may be treated with corticosteroid and immunosuppressive medications. Immunosuppressive medications prevent the body from making antibodies. Adults with severe, acute kidney failure are treated with high-dose corticosteroids and the immunosuppressive cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan).
                
People with HSP that is causing high blood pressure may need to take medications thatwhen taken as prescribed by their health care providerlower their blood pressure and can also significantly slow the progression of kidney disease. Two types of blood pressure lowering medications, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), have proven effective in slowing the progression of kidney disease. Many people require two or more medications to control their blood pressure. In addition to an ACE inhibitor or an ARB, a diuretica medication that helps the kidneys remove fluid from the bloodmay be prescribed. Beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, and other blood pressure medications may also be needed.
                
Blood and urine tests are used to check the kidney function of people with HSP for at least 6 months after the main symptoms disappear.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How to diagnose Multiple myeloma ?
Answer: How is multiple myeloma diagnosed? A diagnosis of multiple myeloma may be suspected based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. Additional testing can then be ordered to confirm the diagnosis. This may include: Specialized blood tests including immunoglobulin studies, complete blood count with differential, and blood chemistry studies Urine tests such as immunoglobulin studies and a twenty-four-hour urine test Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy Imaging studies such as an X-ray of the bones (skeletal bone survey), MRI, CT scan, and/or PET scan The American Cancer Society offers more information regarding the diagnosis of multiple myeloma, including a summary of the many tests that may be recommended. Please click on the link to access this resource. Some affected people may have no suspicious signs or symptoms of multiple myeloma, especially in the early stages of the condition. In these cases, multiple myeloma is sometimes diagnosed by chance when a blood test or urine test is ordered to investigate another condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Mnire's disease ?
Answer: How is Mnire's disease diagnosed? The hallmark of Mnire's disease is the fluctuation, waxing and waning of symptoms.  Proper diagnosis of Mnire's disease entails several procedures, including a medical history interview; a physical examination; hearing and balance tests; and medical imaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Accurate measurement and characterization of hearing loss are of critical importance in the diagnosis of Mnire's disease. Through the use of several types of hearing tests, physicians can characterize hearing loss as being sensory (arising from the inner ear) or neural (arising from the hearing nerve). Recording the auditory brain stem response, which measures electrical activity in the hearing nerve and brain stem, is useful in differentiating between these two types of hearing loss. Electrocochleography, recording the electrical activity of the inner ear in response to sound, helps confirm the diagnosis. To test the vestibular or balance system, physicians irrigate the ears with warm and cool water or air. This procedure, known as caloric testing, results in nystagmus, rapid eye movements that can help a physician analyze a balance disorder. Since tumor growth can produce symptoms similar to Mnire's disease, an MRI is a useful test to determine whether a tumor is causing the patient's vertigo and hearing loss.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Andersen-Tawil syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Andersen-Tawil syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Andersen-Tawil Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Andersen Tawil syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the FAS gene cause ALPS in approximately 75 percent of affected individuals. The FAS gene provides instructions for making a protein involved in cell signaling that results in the self-destruction of cells (apoptosis).  When the immune system is turned on (activated) to fight an infection, large numbers of lymphocytes are produced. Normally, these lymphocytes undergo apoptosis when they are no longer required. FAS gene mutations result in an abnormal protein that interferes with apoptosis. Excess lymphocytes accumulate in the body's tissues and organs and often begin attacking them, leading to autoimmune disorders. Interference with apoptosis allows cells to multiply without control, leading to the lymphomas and other cancers that occur in people with this disorder.  ALPS may also be caused by mutations in additional genes, some of which have not been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is critical congenital heart disease inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of CCHD are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, close relatives (such as siblings) of people with CCHD may have an increased risk of being born with a heart defect compared with people in the general population.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ?
Answer: What causes nonalcoholic steatohepatitis? The underlying cause of NASH remains unclear. It most often occurs in persons who are middle-aged and overweight or obese. Many patients with NASH have elevated blood lipids, such as cholesterol and triglycerides, and many have diabetes or prediabetes. However, not every obese person or every patient with diabetes has NASH. Furthermore, some patients with NASH are not obese, do not have diabetes, and have normal blood cholesterol and lipids. NASH can occur without any apparent risk factor and can even occur in children. While the underlying reason for the liver injury that causes NASH is not known, several factors are possible candidates: insulin resistance release of toxic inflammatory proteins by fat cells (cytokines) oxidative stress (deterioration of cells) inside liver cells
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Dwarfism, proportionate with hip dislocation ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Dwarfism, proportionate with hip dislocation? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dwarfism, proportionate with hip dislocation. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hip dislocation - Severe short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Hyperglycerolemia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hyperglycerolemia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hyperglycerolemia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis 90% Cognitive impairment 90% EMG abnormality 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Myopathy 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Primary adrenal insufficiency 90% Short stature 90% Cryptorchidism 50% EEG abnormality 50% Hyperlordosis 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Scoliosis 50% Seizures 50% Abnormal facial shape 7.5% Adrenal insufficiency - Adrenocortical hypoplasia - Coma - Downturned corners of mouth - Episodic vomiting - Frontal bossing - Hypertelorism - Hypertriglyceridemia - Hypoglycemia - Intellectual disability - Ketoacidosis - Lethargy - Low-set ears - Metabolic acidosis - Muscular dystrophy - Osteoporosis - Pathologic fracture - Small for gestational age - Strabismus - X-linked dominant inheritance - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Adiposis dolorosa ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for adiposis dolorosa? Clinical genetic testing for adiposis dolorosa is currently not available. This type of testing is typically only available when a genetic cause for a condition has been established, and the specific gene(s) causing the condition have been identified. Most cases of adiposis dolorosa are sporadic (not inherited) and no genes known to be associated with the condition have been identified. We are also not aware of laboratories currently offering research genetic testing for this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Kniest dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Heart Block ?
Answer: Heart block is a problem that occurs with the heart's electrical system. This system controls the rate and rhythm of heartbeats. ("Rate" refers to the number of times your heart beats per minute. "Rhythm" refers to the pattern of regular or irregular pulses produced as the heart beats.)
                
With each heartbeat, an electrical signal spreads across the heart from the upper to the lower chambers. As it travels, the signal causes the heart to contract and pump blood.
                
Heart block occurs if the electrical signal is slowed or disrupted as it moves through the heart.
                
Overview
                
Heart block is a type of arrhythmia (ah-RITH-me-ah). An arrhythmia is any problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
                
Some people are born with heart block, while others develop it during their lifetimes. If you're born with the condition, it's called congenital (kon-JEN-ih-tal) heart block. If the condition develops after birth, it's called acquired heart block.
                
Doctors might detect congenital heart block before or after a baby is born. Certain diseases that may occur during pregnancy can cause heart block in a baby. Some congenital heart defects also can cause heart block. Congenital heart defects are problems with the heart's structure that are present at birth. Often, doctors don't know what causes these defects.
                
Acquired heart block is more common than congenital heart block. Damage to the heart muscle or its electrical system causes acquired heart block. Diseases, surgery, or medicines can cause this damage.
                
The three types of heart block are first degree, second degree, and third degree. First degree is the least severe, and third degree is the most severe. This is true for both congenital and acquired heart block.
                
Doctors use a test called an EKG (electrocardiogram) to help diagnose heart block. This test detects and records the heart's electrical activity. It maps the data on a graph for the doctor to review.
                
Outlook
                
The symptoms and severity of heart block depend on which type you have. First-degree heart block may not cause any severe symptoms.
                
Second-degree heart block may result in the heart skipping a beat or beats. This type of heart block also can make you feel dizzy or faint.
                
Third-degree heart block limits the heart's ability to pump blood to the rest of the body. This type of heart block may cause fatigue (tiredness), dizziness, and fainting. Third-degree heart block requires prompt treatment because it can be fatal.
                
A medical device called a pacemaker is used to treat third-degree heart block and some cases of second-degree heart block. This device uses electrical pulses to prompt the heart to beat at a normal rate. Pacemakers typically are not used to treat first-degree heart block.
                
All types of heart block may increase your risk for other arrhythmias, such as atrial fibrillation (A-tre-al fih-brih-LA-shun). Talk with your doctor to learn more about the signs and symptoms of arrhythmias.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What causes Nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency? Nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency has been shown to be caused by mutations in the HK1 gene, which cause at least a partial deficiency of the enzyme hexokinase. This enzyme plays an important role in the chemical processes involved in the breakdown of sugar molecules (glycolysis). Red blood cells depend on this process for energy; if an enzyme is defective in any one of the stages, the red blood cell cannot function properly and hemolysis takes place. When red blood cells cannot be replaced faster than they destroy themselves, anemia results.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Parkinson disease ?
Answer: Most cases of Parkinson disease probably result from a complex interaction of environmental and genetic factors. These cases are classified as sporadic and occur in people with no apparent history of the disorder in their family. The cause of these sporadic cases remains unclear.  Approximately 15 percent of people with Parkinson disease have a family history of this disorder. Familial cases of Parkinson disease can be caused by mutations in the LRRK2, PARK2, PARK7, PINK1, or SNCA gene, or by alterations in genes that have not been identified. Mutations in some of these genes may also play a role in cases that appear to be sporadic (not inherited).  Alterations in certain genes, including GBA and UCHL1, do not cause Parkinson disease but appear to modify the risk of developing the condition in some families. Variations in other genes that have not been identified probably also contribute to Parkinson disease risk.  It is not fully understood how genetic changes cause Parkinson disease or influence the risk of developing the disorder. Many Parkinson disease symptoms occur when nerve cells (neurons) in the substantia nigra die or become impaired. Normally, these cells produce a chemical messenger called dopamine, which transmits signals within the brain to produce smooth physical movements. When these dopamine-producing neurons are damaged or die, communication between the brain and muscles weakens. Eventually, the brain becomes unable to control muscle movement.  Some gene mutations appear to disturb the cell machinery that breaks down (degrades) unwanted proteins in dopamine-producing neurons. As a result, undegraded proteins accumulate, leading to the impairment or death of these cells. Other mutations may affect the function of mitochondria, the energy-producing structures within cells. As a byproduct of energy production, mitochondria make unstable molecules called free radicals that can damage cells. Cells normally counteract the effects of free radicals before they cause damage, but mutations can disrupt this process. As a result, free radicals may accumulate and impair or kill dopamine-producing neurons.  In most cases of Parkinson disease, protein deposits called Lewy bodies appear in dead or dying dopamine-producing neurons. (When Lewy bodies are not present, the condition is sometimes referred to as parkinsonism.) It is unclear whether Lewy bodies play a role in killing nerve cells or if they are part of the cells' response to the disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) surfactant dysfunction ?
Answer: Surfactant dysfunction is a lung disorder that causes breathing problems. This condition results from abnormalities in the composition or function of surfactant, a mixture of certain fats (called phospholipids) and proteins that lines the lung tissue and makes breathing easy. Without normal surfactant, the tissue surrounding the air sacs in the lungs (the alveoli) sticks together (because of a force called surface tension) after exhalation, causing the alveoli to collapse. As a result, filling the lungs with air on each breath becomes very difficult, and the delivery of oxygen to the body is impaired.  The signs and symptoms of surfactant dysfunction can vary in severity. The most severe form of this condition causes respiratory distress syndrome in newborns. Affected babies have extreme difficulty breathing and are unable to get enough oxygen. The lack of oxygen can damage the baby's brain and other organs. This syndrome leads to respiratory failure, and most babies with this form of the condition do not survive more than a few months.  Less severe forms of surfactant dysfunction cause gradual onset of breathing problems in children or adults. Signs and symptoms of these milder forms are abnormally rapid breathing (tachypnea); low concentrations of oxygen in the blood (hypoxemia); and an inability to grow or gain weight at the expected rate (failure to thrive).  There are several types of surfactant dysfunction, which are identified by the genetic cause of the condition. One type, called SP-B deficiency, causes respiratory distress syndrome in newborns. Other types, known as SP-C dysfunction and ABCA3 deficiency, have signs and symptoms that range from mild to severe.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Farber lipogranulomatosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Farber lipogranulomatosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Farber's lipogranulomatosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: How is isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (IBD deficiency) treated? There is no standard treatment protocol for IBD deficiency. Infants diagnosed through newborn screening are encouraged to work with a metabolic disease specialist and a dietician experienced in metabolic disorders. Some treatments may be recommended even if no symptoms have been observed. Treatment may be needed throughout life. The following treatments may be recommended for some babies and children with IBD deficiency.  Children with IBD deficiency may be helped by taking L-carnitine, a safe and natural substance which helps the body's cells make energy and get rid of harmful wastes. L-carnitine may also help to prevent or treat the heart problems and anemia seen in children with IBD deficiency. Children with IBD deficiency are advised to avoid fasting. Going without food for a long time causes the body to use its stores of fat and protein for energy. In some people with IBD deficiency, this may lead to the build up of harmful substances in the blood. Eating frequently (every 4 to 6 hours) may help to avoid these health effects. While most children with IBD deficiency do fine without a change in diet, a low-valine food plan might be necessary. Valine is found in all foods with protein. Foods high in valine, such as dairy products, meat, poultry, fish, eggs, dried beans and legumes, nuts and peanut butter should be limited. There are medical foods such low-protein flours, pastas, rice, and special formulas that are made especially for people with organic acid disorders. Your dietician / physician can advise you on whether you should use these foods to supplement your childs diet.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Reardon Wilson Cavanagh syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Reardon Wilson Cavanagh syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Reardon Wilson Cavanagh syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Incoordination 90% Nystagmus 90% Sensorineural hearing impairment 90% Strabismus 90% Abnormality of the palate 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 50% Cerebral cortical atrophy 50% Decreased nerve conduction velocity 50% EMG abnormality 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Scoliosis 50% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Ventriculomegaly 50% Joint hypermobility 7.5% Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Intellectual disability - Progressive sensorineural hearing impairment - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura ?
Answer: Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare blood disorder. In TTP, blood clots form in small blood vessels throughout the body.
                
The clots can limit or block the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the body's organs, such as the brain, kidneys, and heart. As a result, serious health problems can develop.
                
The increased clotting that occurs in TTP also uses up platelets (PLATE-lets) in the blood. Platelets are blood cell fragments that help form blood clots. These cell fragments stick together to seal small cuts and breaks on blood vessel walls and stop bleeding.
                
With fewer platelets available in the blood, bleeding problems can occur. People who have TTP may bleed inside their bodies, underneath the skin, or from the surface of the skin. When cut or injured, they also may bleed longer than normal.
                
"Thrombotic" (throm-BOT-ik) refers to the blood clots that form. "Thrombocytopenic" (throm-bo-cy-toe-PEE-nick) means the blood has a lower than normal number of platelets. "Purpura" (PURR-purr-ah) refers to purple bruises caused by bleeding under the skin.
                
Bleeding under the skin also can cause tiny red or purple dots on the skin. These pinpoint-sized dots are called petechiae (peh-TEE-kee-ay). Petechiae may look like a rash.
                
Purpura and Petechiae
                

                
TTP also can cause red blood cells to break apart faster than the body can replace them. This leads to hemolytic anemia (HEE-moh-lit-ick uh-NEE-me-uh)a rare form of anemia. Anemia is a condition in which the body has a lower than normal number of red blood cells.
                
A lack of activity in the ADAMTS13 enzyme (a type of protein in the blood) causes TTP. The ADAMTS13 gene controls the enzyme, which is involved in blood clotting. The enzyme breaks up a large protein called von Willebrand factor that clumps together with platelets to form blood clots.
                
Types of Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura
                
The two main types of TTP are inherited and acquired. "Inherited" means the condition is passed from parents to children through genes. This type of TTP mainly affects newborns and children.
                
In inherited TTP, the ADAMTS13 gene is faulty and doesn't prompt the body to make a normal ADAMTS13 enzyme. As a result, enzyme activity is lacking or changed.
                
Acquired TTP is the more common type of the disorder. "Acquired" means you aren't born with the disorder, but you develop it. This type of TTP mostly occurs in adults, but it can affect children.
                
In acquired TTP, the ADAMTS13 gene isn't faulty. Instead, the body makes antibodies (proteins) that block the activity of the ADAMTS13 enzyme.
                
It's not clear what triggers inherited and acquired TTP, but some factors may play a role. These factors may include:
                
Some diseases and conditions, such as pregnancy, cancer, HIV, lupus, and infections
                
Some medical procedures, such as surgery and blood and marrow stem cell transplant
                
Some medicines, such as chemotherapy, ticlopidine, clopidogrel, cyclosporine A, and hormone therapy and estrogens
                
Quinine, which is a substance often found in tonic water and nutritional health products
                
If you have TTP, you may sometimes hear it referred to as TTPHUS. HUS, or hemolytic-uremic syndrome, is a disorder that resembles TTP, but is more common in children. Kidney problems also tend to be worse in HUS. Although some researchers think TTP and HUS are two forms of a single syndrome, recent evidence suggests that each has different causes.
                
Outlook
                
TTP is a rare disorder. It can be fatal or cause lasting damage, such as brain damage or a stroke, if it's not treated right away.
                
TTP usually occurs suddenly and lasts for days or weeks, but it can continue for months. Relapses (or flareups) can occur in up to 60 percent of people who have the acquired type of TTP. Many people who have inherited TTP have frequent flareups that need to be treated.
                
Treatments for TTP include infusions of fresh frozen plasma and plasma exchange, also called plasmapheresis (PLAZ-ma-feh-RE-sis). These treatments have greatly improved the outlook of the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Hereditary endotheliopathy, retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke ?
Answer: How might hereditary endotheliopathy with retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke (HERNS) be treated? At this time there is no effective treatment for hereditary endotheliopathy with retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke (HERNS). Treatment of HERNS is largely palliative, which means that it is aimed at decreasing pain and suffering by providing treatments for relief of symptoms along with comfort and support. In some cases, aspirin may be recommended. Laser treatment to prevent retinal hemorrhage may be beneficial to some affected individuals. A continuous maintenance dose of corticosteroids may be prescribed to manage cerebral edema (swelling in the brain).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to congenital afibrinogenemia ?
Answer: Congenital afibrinogenemia results from mutations in one of three genes, FGA, FGB, or FGG. Each of these genes provides instructions for making one part (subunit) of a protein called fibrinogen. This protein is important for blood clot formation (coagulation), which is needed to stop excessive bleeding after injury. In response to injury, fibrinogen is converted to fibrin, the main protein in blood clots. Fibrin proteins attach to each other, forming a stable network that makes up the blood clot.  Congenital afibrinogenemia is caused by a complete absence of fibrinogen protein. Most FGA, FGB, and FGG gene mutations that cause this condition result in a premature stop signal in the instructions for making the respective protein. If any protein is made, it is nonfunctional. When any one subunit is missing, the fibrinogen protein is not assembled, which results in the absence of fibrin. Consequently, blood clots do not form in response to injury, leading to the excessive bleeding seen in people with congenital afibrinogenemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate syndrome ?
Answer: Ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate (AEC) syndrome is a form of ectodermal dysplasia, a group of about 150 conditions characterized by abnormal development of ectodermal tissues including the skin, hair, nails, teeth, and sweat glands.  Among the most common features of AEC syndrome are missing patches of skin (erosions). In affected infants, skin erosions most commonly occur on the scalp. They tend to recur throughout childhood and into adulthood, frequently affecting the scalp, neck, hands, and feet. The skin erosions range from mild to severe and can lead to infection, scarring, and hair loss. Other ectodermal abnormalities in AEC syndrome include changes in skin coloring; brittle, sparse, or missing hair; misshapen or absent fingernails and toenails; and malformed or missing teeth. Affected individuals also report increased sensitivity to heat and a reduced ability to sweat.  Many infants with AEC syndrome are born with an eyelid condition known as ankyloblepharon filiforme adnatum, in which strands of tissue partially or completely fuse the upper and lower eyelids. Most people with AEC syndrome are also born with an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate), a split in the lip (a cleft lip), or both. Cleft lip or cleft palate can make it difficult for affected infants to suck, so these infants often have trouble feeding and do not grow and gain weight at the expected rate (failure to thrive).  Additional features of AEC syndrome can include limb abnormalities, most commonly fused fingers and toes (syndactyly). Less often, affected individuals have permanently bent fingers and toes (camptodactyly) or a deep split in the hands or feet with missing fingers or toes and fusion of the remaining digits (ectrodactyly). Hearing loss is common, occurring in more than 90 percent of children with AEC syndrome. Some affected individuals have distinctive facial features, such as small jaws that cannot open fully and a narrow space between the upper lip and nose (philtrum). Other signs and symptoms can include the opening of the urethra on the underside of the penis (hypospadias) in affected males, digestive problems, absent tear duct openings in the eyes, and chronic sinus or ear infections.  A condition known as Rapp-Hodgkin syndrome has signs and symptoms that overlap considerably with those of AEC syndrome. These two syndromes were classified as separate disorders until it was discovered that they both result from mutations in the same part of the same gene. Most researchers now consider Rapp-Hodgkin syndrome and AEC syndrome to be part of the same disease spectrum.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Spastic paraplegia 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spastic paraplegia 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spastic paraplegia 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Gait disturbance 90% Hyperreflexia 90% Muscle weakness 90% Abnormal renal physiology 50% Abnormality of extrapyramidal motor function 50% Bowel incontinence 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Optic atrophy 50% Incoordination 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Pulmonary embolism 7.5% Recurrent respiratory infections 7.5% Babinski sign - Degeneration of the lateral corticospinal tracts - Dysarthria - Dysmetria - Flexion contracture - Intellectual disability - Juvenile onset - Lower limb muscle weakness - Lower limb spasticity - Pes cavus - Phenotypic variability - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Spastic gait - Spastic paraparesis - Spastic paraplegia - Spinocerebellar tract degeneration - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose ARDS ?
Answer: Your doctor will diagnose ARDS based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
                
Medical History
                
Your doctor will ask whether you have or have recently had conditions that could lead to ARDS. For a list of these conditions, go to "Who Is at Risk for ARDS?"
                
Your doctor also will ask whether you have heart problems, such as heart failure. Heart failure can cause fluid to build up in your lungs.
                
Physical Exam
                
ARDS may cause abnormal breathing sounds, such as crackling. Your doctor will listen to your lungs with a stethoscope to hear these sounds.
                
He or she also will listen to your heart and look for signs of extra fluid in other parts of your body. Extra fluid may mean you have heart or kidney problems.
                
Your doctor will look for a bluish color on your skin and lips. A bluish color means your blood has a low level of oxygen. This is a possible sign of ARDS.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
You may have ARDS or another condition that causes similar symptoms. To find out, your doctor may recommend one or more of the following tests.
                
Initial Tests
                
The first tests done are:
                
An arterial blood gas test. This blood test measures the oxygen level in your blood using a sample of blood taken from an artery. A low blood oxygen level might be a sign of ARDS.
                
Chest x ray. This test creates pictures of the structures in your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. A chest x ray can show whether you have extra fluid in your lungs.
                
Blood tests, such as a complete blood count, blood chemistries, and blood cultures. These tests help find the cause of ARDS, such as an infection.
                
A sputum culture. This test is used to study the spit you've coughed up from your lungs. A sputum culture can help find the cause of an infection.
                
Other Tests
                
Other tests used to diagnose ARDS include:
                
Chest computed tomography (to-MOG-rah-fee) scan, or chest CT scan. This test uses a computer to create detailed pictures of your lungs. A chest CT scan may show lung problems, such as fluid in the lungs, signs of pneumonia, or a tumor.
                
Heart tests that look for signs of heart failure. Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. This condition can cause fluid to build up in your lungs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What causes Tracheobronchopathia osteoplastica ?
Answer: What causes tracheobronchopathia osteoplastica? The underlying cause of tracheobronchopathia osteoplastica (TO) remains unknown. Several theories have been proposed, including chronic airway inflammation, exostosis (formation of new bone), and metaplasia (abnormal cell changes) in the affected tissue. Numerous cases have been reported in association with different conditions including allergic rhinitis. However, no theories have been validated. There is no known genetic susceptibility to the development of TO.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Childhood hypophosphatasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Childhood hypophosphatasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Childhood hypophosphatasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bowing of the legs - Carious teeth - Craniosynostosis - Dolichocephaly - Elevated plasma pyrophosphate - Elevated urine pyrophosphate - Frontal bossing - Low alkaline phosphatase - Myopathy - Phosphoethanolaminuria - Premature loss of primary teeth - Proptosis - Rachitic rosary - Seizures - Short stature - Skin dimple over apex of long bone angulation - Waddling gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is the outlook for Pompe Disease ?
Answer: Without enzyme replacement therapy, the hearts of babies with infantile onset Pompe disease progressively thicken and enlarge. These babies die before the age of one year from either cardiorespiratory failure or respiratory infection. For individuals with late onset Pompe disease, the prognosis is dependent upon the age of onset. In general, the later the age of onset, the slower the progression of the disease. Ultimately, the prognosis is dependent upon the extent of respiratory muscle involvement.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Pressure Sores ?
Answer: Pressure sores are areas of damaged skin caused by staying in one position for too long. They commonly form where your bones are close to your skin, such as your ankles, back, elbows, heels and hips. You are at risk if you are bedridden, use a wheelchair, or are unable to change your position. Pressure sores can cause serious infections, some of which are life-threatening. They can be a problem for people in nursing homes.    You can prevent the sores by        -  Keeping skin clean and dry    - Changing position every two hours    -  Using pillows and products that relieve pressure       Pressure sores have a variety of treatments. Advanced sores are slow to heal, so early treatment is best.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What causes Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans ?
Answer: What causes Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans? The cause of DFSP is unknown but an injury to the affected skin may be a predisposing factor. Trauma at the affected site has been reported in approximately 10-20% of patients. Recent advances have shown that in approximately 90% of cases, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is associated with a rearrangement (translocation) of genetic material between chromosomes 17 and 22 which results in the fusion of two genes. The fused gene produces a protein which some believe may stimulate cells to multiply, leading to the tumor formation seen in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans. This type of gene change is generally found only in tumor cells and is not inherited.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia results from mutations in the TBXAS1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called thromboxane A synthase 1, which acts as part of a chemical signaling pathway involved in normal blood clotting (hemostasis). Based on its role in Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia, researchers suspect that thromboxane A synthase 1 may also be important for bone remodeling, which is a normal process in which old bone is removed and new bone is created to replace it, and for the production of red blood cells in bone marrow.  Mutations in the TBXAS1 gene severely reduce the activity of thromboxane A synthase 1. Studies suggest that a lack of this enzyme's activity may lead to abnormal bone remodeling and fibrosis of the bone marrow. However, the mechanism by which a shortage of thromboxane A synthase 1 activity leads to the particular abnormalities characteristic of Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia is unclear.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 13 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 13? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia 13. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal pyramidal signs - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Dysarthria - Gait ataxia - Hyperreflexia - Intellectual disability - Limb ataxia - Limb dysmetria - Morphological abnormality of the pyramidal tract - Motor delay - Muscular hypotonia - Nystagmus - Progressive cerebellar ataxia - Slow progression - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Dwarfism tall vertebrae ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Dwarfism tall vertebrae? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dwarfism tall vertebrae. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Coxa vara - Increased vertebral height - Severe short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome/dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Freeman-Sheldon syndrome ?
Answer: Freeman-Sheldon syndrome may be caused by mutations in the MYH3 gene. The MYH3 gene provides instructions for making a protein called embryonic skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain 3. This protein belongs to a group of proteins called myosins, which are involved in cell movement and transport of materials within and between cells. Myosin and another protein called actin are the primary components of muscle fibers and are important for the tensing of muscles (muscle contraction). Embryonic skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain 3 forms part of a myosin protein complex that is active before birth and is important for normal development of the muscles.  MYH3 gene mutations that cause Freeman-Sheldon syndrome likely disrupt the function of the embryonic skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain 3 protein, reducing the ability of fetal muscle cells to contract. This impairment of muscle contraction may interfere with muscle development in the fetus, resulting in the contractures and other muscle and skeletal abnormalities associated with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome. It is unclear how MYH3 gene mutations may cause other features of this disorder.  Some people with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome do not have mutations in the MYH3 gene. In these individuals, the cause of the disorder is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) lymphangioleiomyomatosis ?
Answer: Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is a condition that affects the lungs, the kidneys, and the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system consists of a network of vessels that transport lymph fluid and immune cells throughout the body.  LAM is found almost exclusively in women. It usually occurs as a feature of an inherited syndrome called tuberous sclerosis complex. When LAM occurs alone it is called isolated or sporadic LAM.  Signs and symptoms of LAM most often appear during a woman's thirties. Affected women have an overgrowth of abnormal smooth muscle-like cells (LAM cells) in the lungs, resulting in the formation of lung cysts and the destruction of normal lung tissue. They may also have an accumulation of fluid in the cavity around the lungs (chylothorax).  The lung abnormalities resulting from LAM may cause difficulty breathing (dyspnea), chest pain, and coughing, which may bring up blood (hemoptysis). Many women with this disorder have recurrent episodes of collapsed lung (spontaneous pneumothorax). The lung problems may be progressive and, without lung transplantation, may eventually lead to limitations in activities of daily living, the need for oxygen therapy, and respiratory failure. Although LAM cells are not considered cancerous, they may spread between tissues (metastasize). As a result, the condition may recur even after lung transplantation.  Women with LAM may develop cysts in the lymphatic vessels of the chest and abdomen. These cysts are called lymphangioleiomyomas. Affected women may also develop tumors called angiomyolipomas made up of LAM cells, fat cells, and blood vessels. Angiomyolipomas usually develop in the kidneys. Internal bleeding is a common complication of angiomyolipomas.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) FOXG1 syndrome ?
Answer: FOXG1 syndrome is a condition characterized by impaired development and structural brain abnormalities. Affected infants are small at birth, and their heads grow more slowly than normal, leading to an unusually small head size (microcephaly) by early childhood. The condition is associated with a particular pattern of brain malformations that includes a thin or underdeveloped connection between the right and left halves of the brain (a structure called the corpus callosum), reduced folds and grooves (gyri) on the surface of the brain, and a smaller than usual amount of brain tissue known as white matter.  FOXG1 syndrome affects most aspects of development, and children with the condition typically have severe intellectual disability. Abnormal or involuntary movements, such as jerking movements of the arms and legs and repeated hand motions, are common, and most affected children do not learn to sit or walk without assistance. Babies and young children with FOXG1 syndrome often have feeding problems, sleep disturbances, seizures, irritability, and excessive crying. The condition is also characterized by limited communication and social interaction, including poor eye contact and a near absence of speech and language skills. Because of these social impairments, FOXG1 syndrome is classified as an autism spectrum disorder.  FOXG1 syndrome was previously described as a congenital variant of Rett syndrome, which is a similar disorder of brain development. Both disorders are characterized by impaired development, intellectual disability, and problems with communication and language. However, Rett syndrome is diagnosed almost exclusively in females, while FOXG1 syndrome affects both males and females. Rett syndrome also involves a period of apparently normal early development that does not occur in FOXG1 syndrome. Because of these differences, physicians and researchers now usually consider FOXG1 syndrome to be distinct from Rett syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Children's interstitial lung disease ?
Answer: How might chILD be treated? There is no single treatment for interstitial lung diseases in children.  Different forms of chILD require different treatments and support depending on the condition. The goals of treatment for chILD is to relieve symptoms, provide support to maximize growth and development, and to prevent exposure to preventable illnesses that could make the chILD worse.  See the Children's Interstitial and Diffuse Lung Disease Foundation for more detailed information about treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Cerebral Palsy ?
Answer: The term cerebral palsy refers to a group of neurological disorders that appear in infancy or early childhood and permanently affect body movement, muscle coordination, and balance.CP affects the part of the brain that controls muscle movements. The majority of children with cerebral palsy are born with it, although it may not be detected until months or years later.The early signs of cerebral palsy usually appear before a child reaches 3 years of age.The most common are a lack of muscle coordination when performing voluntary movements (ataxia); stiff or tight muscles and exaggerated reflexes (spasticity); walking with one foot or leg dragging; walking on the toes, a crouched gait, or a scissored gait; and muscle tone that is either too stiff or too floppy.Other neurological symptoms that commonly occur in individuals with CP include seizures, hearing loss and impaired vision, bladder and bowel control issues, and pain and abnormal sensations. A small number of children have CP as the result of brain damage in the first few months or years of life, brain infections such as bacterial meningitis or viral encephalitis, or head injury from a motor vehicle accident, a fall, or child abuse. The disorder isn't progressive, meaning that the brain damage typically doesn't get worse over time. Risk factors associated with CP do not cause the disorder but can increase a child's chance of being born with the disorder.CP is not hereditary.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is Chiari malformation type 2 inherited ?
Answer: Is Chiari malformation type 2 inherited? Chiari malformation type 2 typically occurs sporadically (in individuals with no history of the condition in the family). However, the exact cause of Chiari malformation type 2 is not known. Genes may play a role in predisposing an individual to the condition, but environmental factors (such as lack of proper vitamins or nutrients in the maternal diet during pregnancy) may also contribute to the condition. Because the cause is unclear, it is not currently possible to estimate what the recurrence risk for family members may be. There have been reports in the medical literature of families in which more than one family member was affected with a Chiari malformation. However, a search of the available medical literature yields limited information specific to familial cases of Chiari malformation type 2. One article written by Lindenberg and Walker in 1971 describes the Arnold-Chiari malformation in 2 sisters; both also had hydrocephalus and meningomyelocele.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to prevent Problems with Smell ?
Answer: Problems with smell that occur with aging are not preventable. However, you can protect yourself against other causes of smell loss with these steps. - Treat Sinus and Nasal Conditions. Swollen sinuses and nasal passages may cause total or partial loss of smell. Your doctor may prescribe an antibiotic or anti-inflammatory drug to reduce nasal swelling from chronic sinus infections, a major cause of smell loss. Treat Sinus and Nasal Conditions. Swollen sinuses and nasal passages may cause total or partial loss of smell. Your doctor may prescribe an antibiotic or anti-inflammatory drug to reduce nasal swelling from chronic sinus infections, a major cause of smell loss. -  Prevent Upper Respiratory Infections. Colds and respiratory infections such as the flu can lead to smell disorders. Wash your hands frequently, especially during the winter months, and get a flu shot every year. For more information about the flu vaccine, visit  Key Facts About Seasonal Flu Vaccine Prevent Upper Respiratory Infections. Colds and respiratory infections such as the flu can lead to smell disorders. Wash your hands frequently, especially during the winter months, and get a flu shot every year. For more information about the flu vaccine, visit  Key Facts About Seasonal Flu Vaccine - Avoid Allergens. Keep away from allergens such as ragweed, grasses, and pet dander that can cause seasonal allergies or nasal congestion.  Avoid Allergens. Keep away from allergens such as ragweed, grasses, and pet dander that can cause seasonal allergies or nasal congestion. - Avoid Head Injuries. Previous surgery or trauma to the head can impair your sense of smell because the olfactory nerves may be cut, blocked, or physically damaged. Always wear seatbelts when riding in a car and a helmet when bicycling. Avoid Head Injuries. Previous surgery or trauma to the head can impair your sense of smell because the olfactory nerves may be cut, blocked, or physically damaged. Always wear seatbelts when riding in a car and a helmet when bicycling. - Avoid Exposure to Toxic Chemicals. Avoid contact with chemicals that might cause smell problems such as paints, insecticides, and solvents, or wear a respirator if you cannot avoid contact. Avoid Exposure to Toxic Chemicals. Avoid contact with chemicals that might cause smell problems such as paints, insecticides, and solvents, or wear a respirator if you cannot avoid contact. - Review Your Medications. If you are taking medications such as antibiotics or antihistamines and notice a change in your sense of smell, talk to your doctor. You may be able to adjust or change your medicine to one that will not cause a problem with smell.  Review Your Medications. If you are taking medications such as antibiotics or antihistamines and notice a change in your sense of smell, talk to your doctor. You may be able to adjust or change your medicine to one that will not cause a problem with smell. - Dont Smoke. It impairs the ability to identify and enjoy odors. For free help to quit smoking, visit www.Smokefree.gov   Dont Smoke. It impairs the ability to identify and enjoy odors. For free help to quit smoking, visit www.Smokefree.gov  -  Treat Nasal Polyps If Necessary.  If you have nasal polyps, having them removed may restore smell.   Treat Nasal Polyps If Necessary.  If you have nasal polyps, having them removed may restore smell. -  Treat Other Conditions. If you have diabetes, thyroid abnormalities, certain vitamin deficiencies, or are malnourished and you experience a loss of smell or taste, tell your doctor. In some cases, when the condition that is causing the problem with smell is treated, the sense of smell returns.   Treat Other Conditions. If you have diabetes, thyroid abnormalities, certain vitamin deficiencies, or are malnourished and you experience a loss of smell or taste, tell your doctor. In some cases, when the condition that is causing the problem with smell is treated, the sense of smell returns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Lipoic acid synthetase deficiency ?
Answer: Lipoic acid synthetase deficiency is a rare condition that affects the mitochondria. Mitochondria are tiny structures found in almost every cell of the body. They are responsible for creating most of the energy necessary to sustain life and support growth. People affected by this condition generally experience early-onset lactic acidosis, severe encephalopathy, seizures, poor growth, hypotonia, and developmental delay. It is caused by changes (mutations) in the LIAS gene and it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Absence of Tibia ?
Answer: Absence of tibia is a rare birth defect that is characterized by deficiency of the tibia (the shinbone) with other bones of the lower leg relatively intact. The condition may affect one or both legs. Some cases are isolated birth defects, while others are associated with a variety of skeletal and other malformations. It can also be a part of a recognized syndrome such as Werner's syndrome, tibial hemimelia-polysyndactyly-triphalangeal thumb syndrome, and CHARGE syndrome. The underlying cause is generally unknown. Although most isolated cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition, absence of the tibia can rarely affect more than one family member. Treatment varies based on the severity of the condition, but generally involves surgery (i.e. amputation or reconstructive surgery with a prosthesis adapted to growth).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Farm Health and Safety
Answer: Summary : You might think of farms as peaceful settings. Actually, farming is one of the most dangerous jobs in the United States. Farms have many health and safety hazards, including       - Chemicals and pesticides    - Machinery, tools and equipment that can be dangerous    - Hazardous areas, such as grain bins, silos and wells    - Livestock that can spread diseases or cause injuries       Farming injuries are very common. Physical labor and accidents can cause injuries.     Most farm accidents involve machinery. Proper machine inspection and maintenance can help prevent accidents. Using safety gloves, goggles and other protective equipment can also reduce accidents.     Occupational Safety and Health Administration
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for IRAK-4 deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of IRAK-4 deficiency:  - Genetic Testing Registry: IRAK4 deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Joubert syndrome with oculorenal anomalies ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Joubert syndrome with oculorenal anomalies? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Joubert syndrome with oculorenal anomalies. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 90% Apnea 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Incoordination 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Nephropathy 90% Chorioretinal coloboma 50% Iris coloboma 50% Long face 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Narrow forehead 50% Nystagmus 50% Ptosis 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of neuronal migration 7.5% Abnormality of the hypothalamus-pituitary axis 7.5% Aganglionic megacolon 7.5% Anteverted nares 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Encephalocele 7.5% Foot polydactyly 7.5% Hand polydactyly 7.5% Highly arched eyebrow 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Prominent nasal bridge 7.5% Renal insufficiency 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Agenesis of cerebellar vermis - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellar vermis - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blindness - Brainstem dysplasia - Dilated fourth ventricle - Dyspnea - Hepatic fibrosis - Hepatic steatosis - Hepatomegaly - Heterotopia - Hypoplasia of the brainstem - Intellectual disability, progressive - Intellectual disability, severe - Molar tooth sign on MRI - Nephronophthisis - Occipital meningocele - Polycystic kidney dysplasia - Postaxial foot polydactyly - Postaxial hand polydactyly - Renal corticomedullary cysts - Retinal dystrophy - Stage 5 chronic kidney disease - Tachypnea - Tubular atrophy - Tubulointerstitial fibrosis - Undetectable electroretinogram - Wide mouth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Calciphylaxis ?
Answer: Calciphylaxis is a disease in which blood vessels (veins and arteries) become blocked by a build-up of calcium in the walls of the vessels, preventing blood from flowing to the skin or internal organs.  The lack of blood flow (ischemia) damages healthy tissue and causes it to die (necrosis).  The most obvious and frequent symptom of calciphylaxis is damage to the skin, as ulcers can develop and become infected easily.  Calciphylaxis can also affect fat tissue, internal organs, and skeletal muscle, causing infections, pain, and organ failure.  These symptoms are often irreversible, and many individuals with calciphylaxis may not survive more than a few months after they are diagnosed due to infection that spreads throughout the body (sepsis), or organ failure.  The exact cause of calciphylaxis is unknown.  Treatments may include medications to reduce pain, antibiotics to treat infections, and various approaches to preventing the development or worsening of this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis? ?
Answer: Primary Thrombocythemia
                
Thrombocythemia isn't common. The exact number of people who have the condition isn't known. Some estimates suggest that 24 out of every 100,000 people have primary thrombocythemia.
                
Primary thrombocythemia is more common in people aged 50 to 70, but it can occur at any age. For unknown reasons, more women around the age of 30 have primary thrombocythemia than men of the same age.
                
Secondary Thrombocytosis
                
You might be at risk for secondary thrombocytosis if you have a disease, condition, or factor that can cause it. (For more information, go to "What Causes Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis?")
                
Secondary thrombocytosis is more common than primary thrombocythemia. Studies have shown that most people who have platelet counts over 500,000 have secondary thrombocytosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the genetic changes related to galactosemia ?
Answer: Mutations in the GALT, GALK1, and GALE genes cause galactosemia. These genes provide instructions for making enzymes that are essential for processing galactose obtained from the diet. These enzymes break down galactose into another simple sugar, glucose, and other molecules that the body can store or use for energy.  Mutations in the GALT gene cause classic galactosemia (type I). Most of these genetic changes almost completely eliminate the activity of the enzyme produced from the GALT gene, preventing the normal processing of galactose and resulting in the life-threatening signs and symptoms of this disorder. Another GALT gene mutation, known as the Duarte variant, reduces but does not eliminate the activity of the enzyme. People with the Duarte variant tend to have much milder features of galactosemia.  Galactosemia type II results from mutations in the GALK1 gene, while mutations in the GALE gene underlie galactosemia type III. Like the enzyme produced from the GALT gene, the enzymes made from the GALK1 and GALE genes play important roles in processing galactose. A shortage of any of these critical enzymes allows galactose and related compounds to build up to toxic levels in the body. The accumulation of these substances damages tissues and organs, leading to the characteristic features of galactosemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Robinow Sorauf syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Robinow Sorauf syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Robinow Sorauf syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Broad hallux - Duplication of phalanx of hallux - Hypertelorism - Long nose - Malar flattening - Narrow nose - Plagiocephaly - Shallow orbits - Strabismus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the CDC73 gene (also known as the HRPT2 gene) cause hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome. The CDC73 gene provides instructions for making a protein called parafibromin. This protein is found throughout the body and is likely involved in gene transcription, which is the first step in protein production. Parafibromin is also thought to play a role in cell growth and division (proliferation), either promoting or inhibiting cell proliferation depending on signals within the cell.  CDC73 gene mutations cause hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome by reducing the amount of functional parafibromin that is produced. Most of these mutations result in a parafibromin protein that is abnormally short and nonfunctional. Without functional parafibromin, cell proliferation is not properly regulated. Uncontrolled cell division can lead to the formation of tumors. It is unknown why only certain tissues seem to be affected by changes in parafibromin.  Some people with hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome do not have identified mutations in the CDC73 gene. The cause of the condition in these individuals is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) High Blood Pressure ?
Answer: "DASH" stands for "Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension." This is the name of a clinical study that tested the effects of nutrients in food on blood pressure. Study results indicated that you can reduce high blood pressure by following an eating plan that emphasizes fruits, vegetables, and fat-free or low-fat milk and milk products, and that is low in saturated fat, cholesterol, total fat, and added sugars. The DASH eating plan also includes whole grains, poultry, fish, and nuts, and has reduced amounts of red meats, sweets, added sugars, and beverages containing sugars. A second study, called "DASH-Sodium," showed that eating less salt also lowered blood pressure in people following either the DASH eating plan or the typical American diet. But those following DASH, especially those with high blood pressure, benefited the most. For more information on using the DASH eating plan, see  Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure with DASH.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Anxiety ?
Answer: Fear and anxiety are part of life. You may feel anxious before you take a test or walk down a dark street. This kind of anxiety is useful - it can make you more alert or careful. It usually ends soon after you are out of the situation that caused it. But for millions of people in the United States, the anxiety does not go away, and gets worse over time. They may have chest pains or nightmares. They may even be afraid to leave home. These people have anxiety disorders. Types include       - Panic disorder     - Obsessive-compulsive disorder     - Post-traumatic stress disorder     - Phobias     - Generalized anxiety disorder        Treatment can involve medicines, therapy or both.    NIH: National Institute of Mental Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the genetic changes related to congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles ?
Answer: CFEOM1 and rare cases of CFEOM3 result from mutations in the KIF21A gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called a kinesin, which is essential for the transport of materials within cells. Researchers believe that this protein plays an important role in the normal development and function of nerves in the head and face. In particular, this protein plays a critical role in the development of a particular branch of cranial nerve III, which emerges from the brain and controls muscles that raise the eyes and eyelids. Mutations in the KIF21A gene likely alter the protein's ability to transport materials within nerve cells, preventing the normal development of these cranial nerves and the extraocular muscles they control. Abnormal function of the extraocular muscles leads to restricted eye movement and related problems with vision.  Mutations in the PHOX2A gene cause CFEOM2. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is found in the developing nervous system. Studies suggest that the PHOX2A protein plays a critical role in the development of cranial nerves III and IV, which are necessary for normal eye movement. Mutations likely eliminate the function of the PHOX2A protein, which prevents the normal development of these cranial nerves and the extraocular muscles they control.  In most cases of CFEOM3, the genetic cause of the condition is unknown. Studies suggest that a gene associated with CFEOM3 may be located near one end of chromosome 16. The gene associated with Tukel syndrome has not been identified either, although researchers think that it may be located near one end of chromosome 21.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of CODAS syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of CODAS syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for CODAS syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of dental enamel 90% Abnormality of dental morphology 90% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Anteverted nares 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Cataract 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Delayed eruption of teeth 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Epicanthus 90% Malar flattening 90% Midline defect of the nose 90% Overfolded helix 90% Short nose 90% Short stature 90% Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Ptosis 50% Scoliosis 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 50% Abnormality of the upper urinary tract 7.5% Extrahepatic biliary duct atresia 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% Vocal cord paresis 7.5% Anal atresia 5% Cryptorchidism 5% Omphalocele 5% Proximal placement of thumb 5% Rectovaginal fistula 5% Seizures 5% Atria septal defect - Atrioventricular canal defect - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Broad skull - Congenital cataract - Congenital hip dislocation - Coronal cleft vertebrae - Delayed ossification of carpal bones - Genu valgum - Hypoplasia of dental enamel - Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum - Hypoplasia of the odontoid process - Metaphyseal dysplasia - Polyhydramnios - Short humerus - Short metacarpal - Short phalanx of finger - Squared iliac bones - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is type A insulin resistance syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Type A insulin resistance syndrome can have either an autosomal dominant or, less commonly, an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.  In autosomal dominant inheritance, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is dystonia 6 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell can be sufficient to cause the disorder. Some people who inherit the altered gene never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Childhood Vascular Tumors ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Childhood vascular tumors form from cells that make blood vessels or lymph vessels.    - Tests are used to detect (find) and diagnose childhood vascular tumors.    - Childhood vascular tumors may be classified into four groups.         - Benign tumors     - Intermediate (locally aggressive) tumors     - Intermediate (rarely metastasizing) tumors     - Malignant tumors
                
                
                    Childhood vascular tumors form from cells that make blood vessels or lymph vessels.
                    Vascular tumors can form from abnormal blood vessel or lymph vessel cells anywhere in the body. They may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer). There are many types of vascular tumors. The most common type of childhood vascular tumor is hemangioma, which is a benign tumor that usually goes away on its own.   Because malignant vascular tumors are rare in children, there is not a lot of information about what treatment works best.
                               
                
                    Childhood vascular tumors may be classified into four groups.
                    
											                    
											                    Benign tumors    Benign tumors are not cancer. This summary has information about the following benign vascular tumors:            -  Infantile hemangioma.     -  Congenital hemangioma.     - Benign vascular tumors of the liver.     -  Spindle cell hemangioma.     -  Epithelioid hemangioma.     -  Pyogenic granuloma (lobular capillary hemangioma).     -  Angiofibroma.     -  Juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma.              Intermediate (locally aggressive) tumors    Intermediate tumors that are locally aggressive often spread to the area around the tumor. This summary has information about the following locally aggressive vascular tumors:            -  Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma and tufted angioma.              Intermediate (rarely metastasizing) tumors    Intermediate (rarely metastasizing) tumors sometimes spread to other parts of the body. This summary has information about the following vascular tumors that rarely metastasize:            -  Retiform hemangioendothelioma.     -  Papillary intralymphatic angioendothelioma.     -  Composite hemangioendothelioma.     -  Kaposi sarcoma.              Malignant tumors    Malignant tumors are cancer. This summary has information about the following malignant vascular tumors:            -  Epithelioid hemangioendothelioma.     -  Angiosarcoma of soft tissue.
											                    
											                             
											                    
											                    
																			            Benign Tumors
																			            
																			                
																			                    Infantile Hemangioma
																			                    Infantile hemangiomas are the most common type of benign vascular tumor in children. An infantile hemangioma may also be called a "strawberry mark." Immature cells that are meant to form blood vessels form a tumor instead. These tumors are not usually seen at birth but appear when the infant is 3 to 6 weeks old. Most hemangiomas get bigger for about 5 months, then stop growing and slowly fade away completely during the next several years. It is rare for them to come back.   Hemangiomas may be on the skin, in the tissue below the skin, and/or in an organ. They are usually on the head and neck but can be anywhere on or in the body. Hemangiomas may appear as a single lesion, one or more lesions spread over a larger area of the body, or multiple lesions in more than one part of the body. Lesions that are spread over a larger area of the body or multiple lesions are more likely to cause problems.    Risk Factors    Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get the disease; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get the disease. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk.   Infantile hemangiomas are more common in the following:          - Girls.    - Whites.    - Premature babies.    -  Twins, triplets, or other multiple births.     - Babies of mothers who are older at time of the pregnancy or who have problems with the placenta during pregnancy.        Other risk factors for infantile hemangiomas include the following:         - Having certain syndromes.               -  PHACE syndrome: A syndrome in which the hemangioma spreads across a large area of the body (usually the head or face). Other health problems involving the large blood vessels, heart, eyes, and/or brain may also occur.       -  LUMBAR/PELVIS/SACRAL syndrome: A syndrome in which the hemangioma spreads across a large area of the lower back. Other health problems that affect the urinary system, genitals, rectum, anus, brain, spinal cord, and nerve function may also occur.                 Having more than one hemangioma or an airway hemangioma increases the risk of having other health problems.         - Multiple hemangiomas: Having more than five hemangiomas on the skin is a sign that there may be hemangiomas in an organ, most commonly the liver. Heart, muscle, and thyroid gland problems can also occur.     - Airway hemangiomas: Hemangiomas in the airway usually occur along with a large, beard-shaped area of hemangioma on the face (from the ears, around the mouth, lower chin, and front of neck). It is important for airway hemangiomas to be treated before the child has trouble breathing.         Signs and Symptoms    Infantile hemangiomas may cause any of the following signs and symptoms. Check with your childs doctor if your child has any of the following:         - Skin lesions: An area of spidery veins or lightened or discolored skin may appear before the hemangioma does. Hemangiomas occur as firm, warm, bright red-blue lesions on the skin. Lesions that form ulcers are also painful. Later, as the hemangiomas go away, they begin fading in the center before flattening and losing color.    - Lesions below the skin: Lesions that grow under the skin in the fat may appear blue or purple. If the lesions are deep enough under the skin surface, they may not be seen.    - Lesions in an organ: There may be no signs that hemangiomas have formed on an organ.        Although most infantile hemangiomas are nothing to worry about, if your child develops any lumps or red or blue marks on the skin check with your child's doctor. He or she can recommend a specialist if needed.     Diagnostic Tests    A physical exam and history are usually all that are needed to diagnose infantile hemangiomas. If there is something about the tumor that looks unusual, a biopsy may be done. If the hemangioma is deeper inside the body with no change to the skin, or the lesions are spread across a large area of the body, an ultrasound or MRI may be done. See the General Information section for a description of these tests and procedures.    If the hemangiomas are part of a syndrome, more tests may be done such as an echocardiogram, magnetic resonance angiogram, and eye exam.    Treatment    Most hemangiomas fade and shrink without treatment. If the hemangioma is large or causing other health problems, treatment may include the following:          -  Propranolol or other beta-blocker therapy.    -  Steroid therapy, before beta-blocker therapy is begun or when beta-blockers cannot be used.    - Pulsed dye laser surgery, for hemangiomas that have ulcers or have not gone away.     -  Surgery (excision) for hemangiomas that have ulcers, cause vision problems, or have not gone away.    -  Topical beta-blocker therapy for hemangiomas that are in one area of the skin.    -  Combined therapy, such as propranolol and steroid therapy or propranolol and topical beta-blocker therapy.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Congenital Hemangioma
																			                    Congenital hemangioma is a benign vascular tumor that begins forming before birth and is fully formed when the baby is born. They're usually on the skin but can be in another organ.   There are three types of congenital hemangiomas:         -  Rapidly Involuting Congenital Hemangioma: These tumors go away on their own 12 to 15 months after birth. They can form ulcers, bleed, and cause temporary heart and blood clotting problems. The skin may look a little different even after the hemangiomas go away.    -  Partial Involuting Congenital Hemangioma: These tumors do not go away completely.    -  Non-Involuting Congenital Hemangioma: These tumors never go away on their own.          Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose congenital hemangioma.    Treatment    Treatment of rapidly involuting congenital hemangioma and partial involuting congenital hemangioma may include the following:         -  Observation only.        Treatment of non-involuting congenital hemangioma may include the following:         -  Surgery to remove the tumor depending on where it is and whether it is causing symptoms.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Benign Vascular Tumors of the Liver
																			                    Benign vascular tumors of the liver may be focal (a single lesion in one area of the liver), multifocal (multiple lesions in one area of the liver), or diffuse (multiple lesions in more than one area of the liver).    The liver has many functions, including filtering blood and making proteins needed for blood clotting. Sometimes, blood that normally flows through the liver is blocked or slowed by the tumor. This sends blood directly to the heart without going through the liver and is called a liver shunt. This can cause heart failure and problems with blood clotting.    Focal Tumors    Focal tumors are usually rapidly involuting congenital hemangiomas or non-involuting congenital hemangiomas.    Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose focal benign vascular tumors.    Treatment    Treatment of focal tumors of the liver depends on whether symptoms occur and may include the following:         -  Observation.    -  Drugs to manage symptoms, including heart failure and blood clotting problems.    -  Embolization of the liver to manage symptoms, including heart failure.         Multifocal and Diffuse Tumors     Multifocal and diffuse tumors of the liver are usually infantile hemangiomas. Diffuse tumors of the liver can cause serious effects, including problems with the thyroid gland and heart. The liver can enlarge, press on other organs, and cause more symptoms.    Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose multifocal or diffuse benign vascular tumors.    Treatment    Treatment of multifocal and diffuse liver tumors may include the following:         - Observation for multifocal tumors of the liver that do not cause symptoms.    -  Beta-blocker therapy (propranolol).    -  Chemotherapy.    -  Steroid therapy.    - Total hepatectomy and liver transplant, when the tumors do not respond to drug therapy. This is only done when the tumors have spread widely in the liver and more than one organ has failed.        If a vascular tumor of the liver does not respond to standard treatments, a biopsy may be done to see if the tumor has become malignant.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Spindle Cell Hemangioma
																			                    Spindle cell hemangiomas contain cells called spindle cells. Under a microscope, spindle cells look long and slender.    Risk Factors    Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get the disease; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get the disease. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk. Spindle cell hemangiomas are likely to occur in children with the following syndromes:         -  Maffucci syndrome, which affects cartilage and skin.    -  Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome, which affects blood vessels, soft tissues, and bones.         Signs    Spindle cell hemangiomas appear on or under the skin. They are painful red-brown or bluish lesions that usually appear on the arms or legs. They can begin as one lesion and develop into more lesions over years.     Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose spindle cell hemangioma.    Treatment    There is no standard treatment for spindle cell hemangiomas. Treatment may include the following:         -  Surgery to remove the tumor.        Spindle cell hemangiomas may come back after surgery.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Epithelioid Hemangioma
																			                    Epithelioid hemangiomas usually form on or in the skin, especially the head, but can occur in other areas, such as bone.    Signs and Symptoms    Epithelioid hemangiomas are sometimes caused by injury. On the skin, they may appear as firm pink to red bumps and may be itchy. Epithelioid hemangioma of the bone may cause swelling, pain, and weakened bone in the affected area.     Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose epithelioid hemangioma.    Treatment    There is no standard treatment for epithelioid hemangiomas. Treatment may include the following:         -  Surgery (curettage or resection).    -  Sclerotherapy.    -  Radiation therapy in rare cases.        Epithelioid hemangiomas often come back after treatment.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Pyogenic Granuloma
																			                    Pyogenic granuloma is also called lobular capillary hemangioma. It is most common in older children and young adults but may occur at any age.    The lesions are sometimes caused by injury or from the use of certain medicines, including birth control pills and retinoids. They may also form for no known reason inside capillaries (the smallest blood vessels) or other places on the body. Usually there is only one lesion, but sometimes multiple lesions occur in the same area or the lesions may spread to other areas of the body.    Signs    Pyogenic granulomas are raised, bright red lesions that may be small or large and smooth or bumpy. They grow quickly over weeks to months and may bleed a lot.    Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose pyogenic granuloma.    Treatment    Some pyogenic granulomas go away without treatment. Other pyogenic granulomas need treatment that may include the following:         -  Surgery (excision or curettage) to remove the lesion.    -  Laser photocoagulation.        Pyogenic granulomas often come back after treatment.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Angiofibroma
																			                    Angiofibromas are rare. They are benign skin lesions that usually occur with a condition called tuberous sclerosis (an inherited disorder that causes skin lesions, seizures, and mental disabilities).     Signs    Angiofibromas appear as red bumps on the face.    Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose angiofibroma.    Treatment    Treatment of angiofibromas may include the following:         -  Surgery (excision) to remove the tumor.    -  Laser therapy.    -  Targeted therapy (sirolimus).
																			                
																			                
																			                    Juvenile Nasopharyngeal Angiofibroma
																			                    Juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibromas are benign tumors but they can invade nearby tissue. They begin in the nasal cavity and may spread to the nasopharynx, the paranasal sinuses, the bone around the eyes, and sometimes to the brain.     Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma.    Treatment    Treatment of juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibromas may include the following:         -  Surgery (excision) to remove the tumor.    -  Radiation therapy.    -  Chemotherapy.    -  Immunotherapy (interferon).    -  Targeted therapy (sirolimus).
																			                
																			            
																			        
																			        
																			            Intermediate Tumors that Spread Locally
																			            
																			                
																			                    Kaposiform Hemangioendothelioma and Tufted Angioma
																			                    Kaposiform hemangioendotheliomas and tufted angiomas are blood vessel tumors that occur in infants or during early childhood. These tumors can cause Kasabach-Merritt phenomenon, a condition in which the blood is not able to clot and serious bleeding may occur. In Kasabach-Merritt phenomenon the tumor traps and destroys platelets (blood-clotting cells). Then there aren't enough platelets in the blood when needed to stop bleeding. This type of vascular tumor is not related to Kaposi sarcoma.    Signs and Symptoms    Kaposiform hemangioendotheliomas and tufted angiomas usually occur on the skin of the arms and legs, but may also form in deeper tissues, such as muscle or bone. Signs and symptoms may include the following:         - Firm, painful areas of skin that look bruised.    - Purple or brownish-red areas of skin.    - Easy bruising.    -  Bleeding more than the usual amount from mucous membranes, wounds, and other tissues.    -  Anemia (weakness, feeling tired, or looking pale).         Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose kaposiform hemangioendothelioma.   If a physical exam and MRI clearly show the tumor is a kaposiform hemangioendothelioma or a tufted angioma, a biopsy may not be needed. A biopsy is not always done because serious bleeding can occur.    Treatment    Treatment of kaposiform hemangioendotheliomas and tufted angiomas depends on the child's symptoms. Infection, delay in treatment, and surgery can cause bleeding that is life-threatening. Kaposiform hemangioendotheliomas and tufted angiomas are best treated by a vascular anomaly specialist.   Treatment and supportive care to manage bleeding may include the following:         -  Steroid therapy which may be followed by chemotherapy.    -  Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), such as aspirin.    -  Immunotherapy (interferon).    -  Antifibrinolytic therapy to improve blood clotting.    -  Chemotherapy with one or more anticancer drugs.    -  Beta-blocker therapy (propranolol).    -  Surgery (excision) to remove the tumor, with or without embolization.    -  Targeted therapy (sirolimus).    - A clinical trial of targeted therapy (sirolimus) and steroid therapy.        Even with treatment, these tumors do not fully go away and can come back. Long-term effects include chronic pain, heart failure, bone problems, and lymphedema (the build up of lymph fluid in tissues).
																			                
																			            
																			        
																			        
																			            Intermediate Tumors that Rarely Spread
																			            
																			                
																			                    Retiform Hemangioendothelioma
																			                    Retiform hemangioendotheliomas are slow growing, flat tumors that occur in young adults and sometimes children. These tumors usually occur on or under the skin of the arms, legs, and trunk. These tumors often come back after treatment, but they usually do not spread to other parts of the body.    Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose retiform hemangioendothelioma.    Treatment    Treatment of retiform hemangioendotheliomas may include the following:         -  Surgery (excision) to remove the tumor. Follow up will include monitoring to see if the tumor comes back.    -  Radiation therapy and chemotherapy when surgery cannot be done or when the tumor has come back.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Papillary Intralymphatic Angioendothelioma
																			                    Papillary intralymphatic angioendotheliomas are also called Dabska tumors. These tumors form in or under the skin anywhere on the body. The tumors contain channels that look like lymph vessels. Lymph nodes are sometimes affected.    Signs    Papillary intralymphatic angioendotheliomas may appear as firm, raised, purplish bumps, which may be small or large. These tumors grow slowly over time.    Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose papillary intralymphatic angioendothelioma.    Treatment    Treatment of papillary intralymphatic angioendotheliomas may include the following:         -  Surgery (excision) to remove the tumor.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Composite Hemangioendothelioma
																			                    Composite hemangioendotheliomas have features of both benign and malignant vascular tumors. These tumors usually occur on or under the skin on the arms or legs. They may also occur on the head, neck, or chest. Composite hemangioendotheliomas are not likely to metastasize (spread) but they may come back in the same place. When the tumors metastasize, they usually spread to nearby lymph nodes.     Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose composite hemangioendothelioma and find out whether the tumor has spread.     Treatment     Treatment of composite hemangioendotheliomas may include the following:         -  Surgery to remove the tumor.    -  Radiation therapy and chemotherapy for tumors that have spread.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Kaposi Sarcoma
																			                    Kaposi sarcoma is a cancer that causes lesions to grow in the skin; the mucous membranes lining the mouth, nose, and throat; lymph nodes; or other organs. It is caused by the Kaposi sarcoma herpes virus (KSHV). In the United States, it usually occurs in people who have a weak immune system caused by AIDS or by drugs used in organ transplants. It is very rare in children and can be caused by HIV infection and rare immune system disorders.    Signs     Signs in children may include the following:         - Lesions in the skin, mouth, or throat. Skin lesions are red, purple, or brown and change from flat, to raised, to scaly areas called plaques, to nodules.    - Swollen lymph nodes.         Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose Kaposi sarcoma.    Treatment    Treatment of Kaposi sarcoma may include the following:         -  Chemotherapy.        See the PDQ summary on Kaposi Sarcoma Treatment for information about Kaposi sarcoma in adults.
																			                
																			            
																			        
																			        
																			            Malignant Tumors
																			            
																			                
																			                    Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma
																			                    Epithelioid hemangioendotheliomas can occur in children, but are most common in adults between 30 and 50 years of age. They usually occur in the liver, lung, or in bone. They may be either fast growing or slow growing. In about a third of cases, the tumor spreads to other parts of the body very quickly.     Signs and Symptoms     Signs and symptoms depend on where the tumor is:          - On the skin, the tumors can be raised and rounded or flat, red-brown patches that feel warm.     - In the lung, there may be no early symptoms. Signs and symptoms that occur may include:               -  Chest pain.       - Spitting up blood.      -  Anemia (weakness, feeling tired, or looking pale).      - Trouble breathing (from scarred lung tissue).              - In bone, the tumors can cause breaks.         Diagnostic Tests    Epithelioid hemangioendotheliomas in the liver are found with CT scans and MRI scans. See the General Information section for a description of these tests and procedures used to diagnose epithelioid hemangioendothelioma and find out whether the tumor has spread. X-rays may also be done.    Treatment    Treatment of slow-growing epithelioid hemangioendotheliomas includes the following:         -  Observation.        Treatment of fast-growing epithelioid hemangioendotheliomas may include the following:         -  Surgery to remove the tumor when possible.    -  Immunotherapy (interferon) and targeted therapy (thalidomide, sorafenib, pazopanib, sirolimus) for tumors that are likely to spread.    -  Chemotherapy.    - Total hepatectomy and liver transplant when the tumor is in the liver.
																			                
																			                
																			                    Angiosarcoma of the Soft Tissue
																			                    Angiosarcomas are fast-growing tumors that form in blood vessels or lymph vessels in any part of the body, usually in soft tissue. Most angiosarcomas are in or near the skin. Those in deeper soft tissue can form in the liver, spleen, and lung.   These tumors are very rare in children. Children sometimes have more than one tumor in the skin and/or liver.    Risk Factors    Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get the disease; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get the disease. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk. Risk factors for angiosarcomas include the following:         - Being exposed to radiation.    -  Chronic (long-term) lymphedema, a condition in which extra lymph fluid builds up in tissues and causes swelling.     - Having a benign vascular tumor. A benign tumor, such as a hemangioma, may become an angiosarcoma but this rare.         Signs    Signs of angiosarcoma depend on where the tumor is and may include the following:         - Red patches on the skin that bleed easily.    - Purple tumors.         Diagnostic Tests    See the General Information section for a description of tests and procedures used to diagnose angiosarcoma and find out whether the tumor has spread.     Treatment    Treatment of angiosarcoma may include the following:         -  Surgery to completely remove the tumor.    - A combination of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy for angiosarcomas that have spread.    -  Targeted therapy (bevacizumab) and chemotherapy for angiosarcomas that began as infantile hemangiomas.    - A clinical trial of targeted therapy, radiation therapy, and surgery with or without chemotherapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the integument - Aganglionic megacolon - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Elevated calcitonin - Elevated urinary epinephrine - Hypercortisolism - Hyperparathyroidism - Hypertension - Medullary thyroid carcinoma - Parathyroid adenoma - Pheochromocytoma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by hereditary spherocytosis ?
Answer: Hereditary spherocytosis occurs in 1 in 2,000 individuals of Northern European ancestry. This condition is the most common cause of inherited anemia in that population. The prevalence of hereditary spherocytosis in people of other ethnic backgrounds is unknown, but it is much less common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma? ?
Answer: Age, gender, and Epstein-Barr infection can affect the risk of adult Hodgkin lymphoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for adult Hodgkin lymphoma include the following:         - Being in young or late adulthood.     - Being male.     - Being infected with the Epstein-Barr virus.    - Having a first-degree relative (parent, brother, or sister) with Hodgkin lymphoma.        Pregnancy is not a risk factor for Hodgkin lymphoma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the genetic changes related to fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ?
Answer: Mutations in the ACVR1 gene cause fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva.  The ACVR1 gene provides instructions for producing a member of a protein family called bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) type I receptors. The ACVR1 protein is found in many tissues of the body including skeletal muscle and cartilage. It helps to control the growth and development of the bones and muscles, including the gradual replacement of cartilage by bone (ossification) that occurs in normal skeletal maturation from birth to young adulthood.  Researchers believe that a mutation in the ACVR1 gene may change the shape of the receptor under certain conditions and disrupt mechanisms that control the receptor's activity. As a result, the receptor may be constantly turned on (constitutive activation). Constitutive activation of the receptor causes overgrowth of bone and cartilage and fusion of joints, resulting in the signs and symptoms of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Heart Block ?
Answer: Signs and symptoms depend on the type of heart block you have. First-degree heart block may not cause any symptoms.
                
Signs and symptoms of second- and third-degree heart block include:
                
Fainting
                
Dizziness or light-headedness
                
Fatigue (tiredness)
                
Shortness of breath
                
Chest pain
                
These symptoms may suggest other health problems as well. If these symptoms are new or severe, call 911 or have someone drive you to the hospital emergency room. If you have milder symptoms, talk with your doctor right away to find out whether you need prompt treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is the outlook for Cerebro-Oculo-Facio-Skeletal Syndrome (COFS) ?
Answer: COFS is a fatal disease. Most children do not live beyond five years.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by progressive pseudorheumatoid dysplasia ?
Answer: PPRD has been estimated to occur in approximately 1 per million people in the United Kingdom. The condition is thought to be more common in Turkey and the Middle East, although its prevalence in these regions is unknown. The condition in all regions is likely underdiagnosed because it is often misdiagnosed as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Lung Cancer ?
Answer: Lung cancer is one of the most common cancers in the world. It is a leading cause of cancer death in men and women in the United States. Cigarette smoking causes most lung cancers. The more cigarettes you smoke per day and the earlier you started smoking, the greater your risk of lung cancer. High levels of pollution, radiation and asbestos exposure may also increase risk.     Common symptoms of lung cancer include       - A cough that doesn't go away and gets worse over time    - Constant chest pain    - Coughing up blood    - Shortness of breath, wheezing, or hoarseness    - Repeated problems with pneumonia or bronchitis    - Swelling of the neck and face    - Loss of appetite or weight loss    - Fatigue       Doctors diagnose lung cancer using a physical exam, imaging, and lab tests. Treatment depends on the type, stage, and how advanced it is. Treatments include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses substances that attack cancer cells without harming normal cells.    NIH: National Cancer Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Who is at risk for Low Vision? ?
Answer: People age 60 and older, as well as African Americans and Hispanics over age 45, are at higher risk. African Americans and Hispanics are at higher risk for low vision because they are at higher risk for developing diabetes and diabetic retinopathy, and African Americans are at a higher risk for developing glaucoma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Spina bifida occulta ?
Answer: Spina bifida occulta (SBO) occurs when the bones of the spinal column do not completely close around the developing nerves of the spinal cord. In most cases SBO causes no symptoms, however cases associated with back and urogenital problems have been reported. SBO has an estimated prevalence of 12.4%.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes? ?
Answer: You can do a lot to reduce your risk of getting type 2 diabetes. Being more physically active, reducing fat and calorie intake, and losing a little weight can help you lower your chances of developing type 2 diabetes. Taking the diabetes medicine metformin can also reduce risk, particularly in younger and heavier people with prediabetes and women who have had gestational diabetes. Lowering blood pressure and cholesterol levels also helps you stay healthy.
                
If you are overweight, then take these steps:
                
- Reach and maintain a reasonable body weight. Even a 10 or 15 pound weight loss makes a big difference.  - Make wise food choices most of the time.  - Be physically active every day.
                
If you are fairly inactive, then take this step:
                
- Be physically active every day.
                
If your blood pressure is too high, then take these steps:
                
- Reach and maintain a reasonable body weight.  - Make wise food choices most of the time.  - Reduce your sodium and alcohol intake.  - Be physically active every day.  - Talk with your doctor about whether you need medicine to control your blood pressure.
                
If your cholesterol or triglyceride levels are too high, then take these steps:
                
- Make wise food choices most of the time.  - Be physically active every day.  - Talk with your doctor about whether you need medicine to control your cholesterol levels.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Paramyotonia congenita ?
Answer: Paramyotonia congenita is an inherited condition that affects muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles), mainly in the face, neck, arms, and hands. Symptoms begin in infancy or early childhood and include episodes of sustained muscle tensing (myotonia) that prevent muscles from relaxing normally and lead to muscle weakness.  Symptoms in paramyotonia congenita worsen during exposure to cold temperatures, and unlike many other forms of myotonia, worsen with exercise and repeated movements. This condition is caused by mutations in the SCN4A gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?
Answer: Mutations in the PPT1 gene cause most cases of infantile NCL. The PPT1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1. This enzyme is active in cell compartments called lysosomes, which digest and recycle different types of molecules. Palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 removes certain fats called long-chain fatty acids from proteins, which probably helps break down the proteins. Palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 is also thought to be involved in a variety of other cell functions.  PPT1 gene mutations that cause infantile NCL decrease the production or function of palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1. A shortage of functional enzyme impairs the removal of fatty acids from proteins. In the lysosomes, these fats and proteins accumulate as fatty substances called lipopigments. These accumulations occur in cells throughout the body, but nerve cells in the brain seem to be particularly vulnerable to the damage caused by buildup of lipopigments and the loss of enzyme function. The progressive death of cells, especially in the brain, leads to the signs and symptoms of infantile NCL.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Shingles ?
Answer: Shingles is caused by a virus called the varicella-zoster virus -- the one that gave you chickenpox when you were a child. As you recovered from chickenpox, the sores and other symptoms healed, but the virus remained. It is with you for life. Researchers know that the varicella-zoster virus behaves differently from other viruses, such as the flu virus. Our immune system usually kills off invading germs, but it cannot completely knock out this type of virus. The virus just becomes inactive. The virus can become active again, especially in the later years of your life when your immune system doesn't protect you as well from infections. The virus travels from the spinal nerve cells and follows a nerve path out to the skin. Nerve endings in the skin become inflamed and erupt in a very painful rash. Healthcare providers cannot always be sure what the trigger is in each case. They don't know why the virus reactivates in one person with these risk factors, while in another person with the same risk factors, it does not.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for Parasites - Loiasis ?
Answer: Decisions about treatment of loiasis can be difficult and often require advice from an expert in infectious diseases or tropical medicine. Although surgical removal of adult worms moving under the skin or across the eye can be done to relieve anxiety, loiasis is not cured by surgery alone. There are two medications that can be used to treat the infection and manage the symptoms. The treatment of choice is diethylcarbamazine (DEC), which kills the microfilariae and adult worms. Albendazole is sometimes used in patients who are not cured with multiple DEC treatments. It is thought to kill adult worms. Certain people with heavy infections are at risk of brain inflammation when treated with DEC. This can cause coma or sometimes death. People with heavy infections need to be treated by experienced specialists.  Sometimes, other medical conditions need to be addressed first in order to make it safer to use DEC. Sometimes treatment is not recommended.
    
More on: Resources for Health Professionals: Treatment
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What is (are) Chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature ?
Answer: Chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature, also known as CANDLE syndrome, is a rare autoinflammatory condition. Signs and symptoms generally develop during the first year of life and may include recurrent fevers, purpura, swollen eyelids, joint pain, contractures, developmental delay and progressive lipodystrophy. CANDLE syndrome is often caused by changes (mutations) in the PSMB8 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In some cases, the underlying genetic cause is unknown. There is currently no cure for the condition. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) familial male-limited precocious puberty ?
Answer: Familial male-limited precocious puberty is a condition that causes early sexual development in males; females are not affected. Boys with this disorder begin exhibiting the signs of puberty in early childhood, between the ages of 2 and 5. Signs of male puberty include a deepening voice, acne, increased body hair, underarm odor, growth of the penis and testes, and spontaneous erections. Changes in behavior, such as increased aggression and early interest in sex, may also occur. Without treatment, affected boys grow quickly at first, but they stop growing earlier than usual. As a result, they tend to be shorter in adulthood compared with other members of their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Miller-Dieker syndrome ?
Answer: Miller-Dieker syndrome is caused by a deletion of genetic material near the end of the short (p) arm of chromosome 17. The signs and symptoms of Miller-Dieker syndrome are probably related to the loss of multiple genes in this region. The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals.  Researchers are working to identify all of the genes that contribute to the features of Miller-Dieker syndrome. They have determined that the loss of a particular gene on chromosome 17, PAFAH1B1, is responsible for the syndrome's characteristic sign of lissencephaly. The loss of another gene, YWHAE, in the same region of chromosome 17 increases the severity of the lissencephaly in people with Miller-Dieker syndrome. Additional genes in the deleted region probably contribute to the varied features of Miller-Dieker syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Lafora disease ?
Answer: How is Lafora disease diagnosed? A diagnosis of Lafora disease is often suspected based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. Additional testing can then be ordered to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other conditions that may cause similar features. For example, a skin biopsy may be performed to detect "Lafora bodies" (clumps of abnormal glycogen that cannot be broken down and used for fuel) which are found in most people with the condition. Genetic testing for changes (mutations) in either the EPM2A gene or the NHLRC1 gene may be used to confirm the diagnosis in some cases. An EEG and an MRI of the brain are generally recommended in all people with recurrent seizures and are useful in investigating other conditions in the differential diagnosis. GeneReview's Web site offers more specific information regarding the diagnosis of Lafora disease. Please click on the link to access this resource.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Dextrocardia with situs inversus ?
Answer: Dextrocardia with situs inversus is a condition that is characterized by abnormal positioning of the heart and other internal organs. In people affected by dextrocardia, the tip of the heart points towards the right side of the chest instead of the left side. Situs inversus refers to the mirror-image reversal of the organs in the chest and abdominal cavity. Some affected people have no obvious signs or symptoms. However, a small percentage of people also have congenital heart defects, usually transposition of the great vessels. Dextrocardia with situs inversus can also be associated with primary ciliary dyskinesia (also known as Kartagener syndrome). Treatment typically depends on the heart or physical problems the person may have in addition to dextrocardia with situs inversus.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Vision Impairment and Blindness ?
Answer: If you have low vision, eyeglasses, contact lenses, medicine, or surgery may not help. Activities like reading, shopping, cooking, writing, and watching TV may be hard to do. The leading causes of low vision and blindness in the United States are age-related eye diseases: macular degeneration, cataract and glaucoma. Other eye disorders, eye injuries and birth defects can also cause vision loss.     Whatever the cause, lost vision cannot be restored. It can, however, be managed. A loss of vision means that you may have to reorganize your life and learn new ways of doing things. If you have some vision, visual aids such as special glasses and large print books can make life easier. There are also devices to help those with no vision, like text-reading software and braille books.    The sooner vision loss or eye disease is found and treated, the greater your chances of keeping your remaining vision. You should have regular comprehensive eye exams by an eye care professional.    NIH: National Eye Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for sitosterolemia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of sitosterolemia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Sitosterolemia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Sitosterolemia  - Massachusetts General Hospital: Lipid Metabolism   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Prescription and Illicit Drug Abuse ?
Answer: Although under federal law, marijuana is illegal to use under any circumstance, in some states doctors are allowed to prescribe it for medical use. However, solid data on marijuanas health benefits is lacking, and for smoked marijuana many health experts have concerns about the potential negative effects on the lungs and respiratory system. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved smoked marijuana to treat any disease. They have approved two medications that are chemically similar to marijuana to treat wasting disease (extreme weight loss) in people with AIDS and to treat nausea and vomiting associated with cancer treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Hereditary Neuropathies ?
Answer: Hereditary neuropathies are a group of inherited disorders affecting the peripheral nervous system. The hereditary neuropathies are divided into four major subcategories: hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy, hereditary sensory neuropathy, hereditary motor neuropathy, and hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy. The most common type is Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, one of the hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies. Symptoms of the hereditary neuropathies vary according to the type and may include sensory symptoms such as numbness, tingling, and pain in the feet and hands; or motor symptoms such as weakness and loss of muscle bulk, particularly in the lower leg and feet muscles. Certain types of hereditary neuropathies can affect the autonomic nerves, resulting in impaired sweating, postural hypotension, or insensitivity to pain. Some people may have foot deformities such as high arches and hammer toes, thin calf muscles (having the appearance of an inverted champagne glass) or scoliosis (curvature of the spine). The symptoms of hereditary neuropathies may be apparent at birth or appear in middle or late life. They can vary among different family members, with some family members being more severely affected than others. The hereditary neuropathies can be diagnosed by blood tests for genetic testing, nerve conduction studies, and nerve biopsies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is the outlook for Meningitis and Encephalitis ?
Answer: The prognosis for for people with encephalitis or meningitis varies. Some cases are mild, short and relatively benign and individuals have full recovery, although the process may be slow. Individuals who experience mild symptoms may recover in 2-4 weeks. Other cases are severe, and permanent impairment or death is possible. The acute phase of encephalitis may last for 1 to 2 weeks, with gradual or sudden resolution of fever and neurological symptoms. Individuals treated for bacterial meningitis typically show some relief within 48-72 hours. Neurological symptoms may require many months before full recovery. With early diagnosis and prompt treatment, most individuals recover from meningitis. However, in some cases, the disease progresses so rapidly that death occurs during the first 48 hours, despite early treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) isolated ectopia lentis ?
Answer: Isolated ectopia lentis is a condition that affects the eyes, specifically the positioning of the lens. The lens is a clear structure at the front of the eye that helps focus light. In people with isolated ectopia lentis, the lens in one or both eyes is not centrally positioned as it should be but is off-center (displaced). Isolated ectopia lentis usually becomes apparent in childhood. The lens may drift further off-center over time.  Vision problems are common in isolated ectopia lentis. Affected individuals often have nearsightedness (myopia) and can have an irregular curvature of the lens or a structure that covers the front of the eye (the cornea), which causes blurred vision (astigmatism). They may also develop clouding of the lenses (cataracts) or increased pressure in the eyes (glaucoma) at an earlier age than other adults. In a small number of people with isolated ectopia lentis, tearing of the back lining of the eye (retinal detachment) occurs, which can lead to further vision problems and possible blindness.  In individuals with isolated ectopia lentis, each eye can be affected differently. In addition, the eye problems vary among affected individuals, even those within the same family.  Ectopia lentis is classified as isolated when it occurs alone without signs and symptoms affecting other body systems. Ectopia lentis can also be classified as syndromic, when it is part of a syndrome that affects multiple parts of the body. Ectopia lentis is a common feature of genetic syndromes such as Marfan syndrome and Weill-Marchesani syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Ulcerative Colitis ?
Answer: The exact cause of ulcerative colitis is unknown. Researchers believe the following factors may play a role in causing ulcerative colitis:
                
- overactive intestinal immune system  - genes  - environment
                
Overactive intestinal immune system. Scientists believe one cause of ulcerative colitis may be an abnormal immune reaction in the intestine. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. Researchers believe bacteria or viruses can mistakenly trigger the immune system to attack the inner lining of the large intestine. This immune system response causes the inflammation, leading to symptoms.
                
Genes. Ulcerative colitis sometimes runs in families. Research studies have shown that certain abnormal genes may appear in people with ulcerative colitis. However, researchers have not been able to show a clear link between the abnormal genes and ulcerative colitis.
                
Environment. Some studies suggest that certain things in the environment may increase the chance of a person getting ulcerative colitis, although the overall chance is low. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,1 antibiotics,1 and oral contraceptives2 may slightly increase the chance of developing ulcerative colitis. A high-fat diet may also slightly increase the chance of getting ulcerative colitis.3
                
Some people believe eating certain foods, stress, or emotional distress can cause ulcerative colitis. Emotional distress does not seem to cause ulcerative colitis. A few studies suggest that stress may increase a person's chance of having a flare-up of ulcerative colitis. Also, some people may find that certain foods can trigger or worsen symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for progressive osseous heteroplasia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of progressive osseous heteroplasia:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Progressive osseous heteroplasia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the CREBBP gene are responsible for some cases of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. The CREBBP gene provides instructions for making a protein that helps control the activity of many other genes. This protein, called CREB binding protein, plays an important role in regulating cell growth and division and is essential for normal fetal development. If one copy of the CREBBP gene is deleted or mutated, cells make only half of the normal amount of CREB binding protein. Although a reduction in the amount of this protein disrupts normal development before and after birth, researchers have not determined how it leads to the specific signs and symptoms of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome.  Mutations in the EP300 gene cause a small percentage of cases of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. Like the CREBBP gene, this gene provides instructions for making a protein that helps control the activity of other genes. It also appears to be important for development before and after birth. EP300 mutations inactivate one copy of the gene in each cell, which interferes with normal development and causes the typical features of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. The signs and symptoms of this disorder in people with EP300 mutations are similar to those with mutations in the CREBBP gene; however, studies suggest that EP300 mutations may be associated with milder skeletal changes in the hands and feet.  Some cases of severe Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome have resulted from a deletion of genetic material from the short (p) arm of chromosome 16. Several genes, including the CREBBP gene, are missing as a result of this deletion. Researchers believe that the loss of multiple genes in this region probably accounts for the serious complications associated with severe Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome.  About half of people with Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome do not have an identified mutation in the CREBBP or EP300 gene or a deletion in chromosome 16. The cause of the condition is unknown in these cases. Researchers predict that mutations in other genes are also responsible for the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Tangier disease ?
Answer: Tangier disease is an inherited disorder characterized by significantly reduced levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) in the blood. HDL transports cholesterol and certain fats called phospholipids from the body's tissues to the liver, where they are removed from the blood. HDL is often referred to as "good cholesterol" because high levels of this substance reduce the chances of developing heart and blood vessel (cardiovascular) disease. Because people with Tangier disease have very low levels of HDL, they have a moderately increased risk of cardiovascular disease.  Additional signs and symptoms of Tangier disease include a slightly elevated amount of fat in the blood (mild hypertriglyceridemia); disturbances in nerve function (neuropathy); and enlarged, orange-colored tonsils. Affected individuals often develop atherosclerosis, which is an accumulation of fatty deposits and scar-like tissue in the lining of the arteries. Other features of this condition may include an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly), an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly), clouding of the clear covering of the eye (corneal clouding), and type 2 diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency ?
Answer: X-linked SCID is the most common form of severe combined immunodeficiency. Its exact incidence is unknown, but the condition probably affects at least 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 newborns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens inherited ?
Answer: How is congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD) inherited? When this condition is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This pattern of inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have a mutation. Parents of a person with CBAVD each carry one CFTR mutation, but are usually unaffected (carriers). Men with CBAVD who choose to father children through assisted reproduction have an increased risk of having a child with cystic fibrosis. If congenital absence of the vas deferens is not caused by mutations in CFTR, the risk of having children with cystic fibrosis is not increased. The risk to siblings of a person with CBAVD depends on the affected person's CFTR gene mutation(s) and cannot readily be predicted without this information. Genetic testing is most informative when the CBAVD-causing mutations have been identified in the affected individual. Men with CBAVD sometimes have only one identifiable CFTR mutation, complicating the testing and interpretation of results in their family members. We recommend speaking with a genetics professional about risk to other family members as well as any appropriate genetic testing.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Kidney Failure: Choosing a Treatment That's Right for You ?
Answer: You have three treatment options to choose from to filter your blood. A fourth option offers care without replacing the work of the kidneys. None of these treatments helps the kidneys get better. However, they all can help you feel better.
                
- Hemodialysis uses a machine to move your blood through a filter outside your body, removing wastes.  - Peritoneal dialysis uses the lining of your belly to filter your blood inside your body, removing wastes.  - Kidney transplantation is surgery to place a healthy kidney from a person who has just died or a living person, usually a family member, into your body to take over the job of filtering your blood.  - Conservative management is the choice not to treat kidney failure with dialysis or a transplant. Instead, the focus is on using medicines to keep you comfortable, preserving kidney function through diet, and treating the problems of kidney failure, such as anemiaa shortage of red blood cells that can make you tiredand weak bones.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by erythrokeratodermia variabilis et progressiva ?
Answer: EKVP is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Prader-Willi syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Prader-Willi syndrome are not inherited, particularly those caused by a deletion in the paternal chromosome 15 or by maternal uniparental disomy. These genetic changes occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early embryonic development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Rarely, a genetic change responsible for Prader-Willi syndrome can be inherited. For example, it is possible for a genetic change that abnormally inactivates genes on the paternal chromosome 15 to be passed from one generation to the next.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) ?
Answer: After an incubation period of 3-8 days, the symptoms of KFD begin suddenly with chills, fever, and headache. Severe muscle pain with vomiting, gastrointestinal symptoms and bleeding problems may occur 3-4 days after initial symptom onset. Patients may experience abnormally low blood pressure, and low platelet, red blood cell, and white blood cell counts. 
                
After 1-2 weeks of symptoms, some patients recover without complication. However, the illness is biphasic for a subset of patients (10-20%) who experience a second wave of symptoms at the beginning of the third week. These symptoms include fever and signs of neurological manifestations, such as severe headache, mental disturbances, tremors, and vision deficits. 
                
The estimated case-fatality rate is from 3 to 5% for KFD.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the treatments for cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of CADASIL:  - Butler Hospital: Treatment and Management of CADASIL  - Gene Review: Gene Review: CADASIL  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Multi-Infarct Dementia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type I ?
Answer: What causes palmoplantar keratoderma type 1? Punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type 1 is a condition that is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. It has recently been shown to be caused by mutations in the AAGAB gene in several families. Although the exact function of the AAGAB gene is currently unknown, the gene is thought to play an important role in skin integrity.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Alaninuria with microcephaly, dwarfism, enamel hypoplasia and diabetes mellitus ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Alaninuria with microcephaly, dwarfism, enamel hypoplasia and diabetes mellitus? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Alaninuria with microcephaly, dwarfism, enamel hypoplasia and diabetes mellitus. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of dental enamel 90% Aminoaciduria 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Incoordination 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Microcephaly 90% Microdontia 90% Short stature 90% Type II diabetes mellitus 90% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Diabetes mellitus - Hypoplasia of dental enamel - Lactic acidosis - Severe short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They are located just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine. Every day, the two kidneys filter about 120 to 150 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine, composed of wastes and extra fluid. Children produce less urine than adults and the amount produced depends on their age. The urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through tubes called ureters. The bladder stores urine. When the bladder empties, urine flows out of the body through a tube called the urethra, located at the bottom of the bladder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula inherited ?
Answer: When EA/TEF occurs as a feature of a genetic syndrome or chromosomal abnormality, it may cluster in families according to the inheritance pattern for that condition. Often EA/TEF is not inherited, and there is only one affected individual in a family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Brooke-Spiegler syndrome ?
Answer: Brooke-Spiegler syndrome is a condition characterized by multiple skin tumors that develop from structures associated with the skin, such as sweat glands and hair follicles. People with Brooke-Spiegler syndrome may develop several types of tumors, including growths called spiradenomas, trichoepitheliomas, and cylindromas. The tumors associated with Brooke-Spiegler syndrome are generally benign (noncancerous), but occasionally they may become malignant (cancerous). Individuals with Brooke-Spiegler syndrome are also at increased risk of developing tumors in tissues in other areas, particularly benign or malignant tumors of the salivary or parotid glands and basal cell carcinomas. Brooke-Spiegler syndrome is caused by mutations in the CYLD gene. Susceptibility to Brooke-Spiegler syndrome has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell increases the risk of developing this condition. However, a second, non-inherited mutation is required for development of skin appendage tumors in this disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of KBG syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of KBG syndrome? KBG syndrome is often characterized by distinctive facial features, skeletal abnormalities, short stature, large upper teeth (macrodontia), and developmental delay or intellectual disability. However, the number and severity of symptoms can vary. Characteristic features of the head and face may include a wide, short skull (brachycephaly); triangular face shape; widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism); wide eyebrows that may connect (synophrys); prominent nasal bridge; a long space between the nose and upper lip; and a thin upper lip. In addition to macrodontia, affected people may have jagged or misaligned teeth and/or other abnormalities of the bones or sockets of the jaw. Skeletal abnormalities most often affect the limbs, spine, and/or ribs. Affected people often have delayed bone age. Other signs and symptoms that have been less commonly reported include seizures; syndactyly; a webbed, short neck; undescended testes (cryptorchidism); hearing loss; defects of the palate (roof of the mouth); strabismus; and congenital heart defects. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for KBG syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of calvarial morphology 90% Abnormality of the femur 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Macrodontia 90% Round face 90% Short stature 90% Telecanthus 90% EEG abnormality 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Hypertelorism 50% Low posterior hairline 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Narrow mouth 50% Reduced number of teeth 50% Short neck 50% Single transverse palmar crease 50% Strabismus 50% Abnormality of dental enamel 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Facial asymmetry 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Pointed chin 7.5% Postaxial hand polydactyly 7.5% Anteverted nares - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cervical ribs - Clinodactyly - Intellectual disability - Long palpebral fissure - Long philtrum - Low anterior hairline - Macrotia - Microcephaly - Oligodontia - Radial deviation of finger - Rib fusion - Syndactyly - Thick eyebrow - Thoracic kyphosis - Triangular face - Underdeveloped nasal alae - Vertebral fusion - Widely-spaced maxillary central incisors - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy ?
Answer: Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is a liver disorder that occurs in pregnant women. Cholestasis is a condition that impairs the release of a digestive fluid called bile from liver cells. As a result, bile builds up in the liver, impairing liver function. Because the problems with bile release occur within the liver (intrahepatic), the condition is described as intrahepatic cholestasis. Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy usually becomes apparent in the third trimester of pregnancy. Bile flow returns to normal after delivery of the baby, and the signs and symptoms of the condition disappear. However, they can return during later pregnancies.  This condition causes severe itchiness (pruritus) in the expectant mother. The itchiness usually begins on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet and then spreads to other parts of the body. Occasionally, affected women have yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice). Some studies have shown that women with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy are more likely to develop gallstones sometime in their life than women who do not have the condition.  Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy can cause problems for the unborn baby. This condition is associated with an increased risk of premature delivery and stillbirth. Additionally, some infants born to mothers with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy have a slow heart rate and a lack of oxygen during delivery (fetal distress).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Battaglia-Neri syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Battaglia-Neri syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Battaglia-Neri syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Coarse facial features 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Hypertrichosis 90% Microcephaly 90% Scoliosis 90% Seizures 90% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hirsutism - Intellectual disability - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Renal nutcracker syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is renal nutcracker syndrome inherited? Renal nutcracker syndrome is not inherited. Most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Although more than one family member may rarely be affected, this is thought to be a coincidence and not the result of a genetic predisposition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is osteogenesis imperfecta inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of osteogenesis imperfecta have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Many people with type I or type IV osteogenesis imperfecta inherit a mutation from a parent who has the disorder. Most infants with more severe forms of osteogenesis imperfecta (such as type II and type III) have no history of the condition in their family. In these infants, the condition is caused by new (sporadic) mutations in the COL1A1 or COL1A2 gene.  Less commonly, osteogenesis imperfecta has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. The parents of a child with an autosomal recessive disorder typically are not affected, but each carry one copy of the altered gene. Some cases of osteogenesis imperfecta type III are autosomal recessive; these cases usually result from mutations in genes other than COL1A1 and COL1A2. When osteogenesis imperfecta is caused by mutations in the CRTAP or P3H1 gene, the condition also has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Knobloch syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Knobloch syndrome:  - American Academy of Ophthalmology: Eye Smart  - Genetic Testing Registry: Knobloch syndrome 1  - JAMA Patient Page: Retinal Detachment  - National Eye Institute: Facts About Retinal Detachment  - Prevent Blindness America: Retinal Tears and Detachments   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the urinary system - Accelerated skeletal maturation - Adrenogenital syndrome - Ambiguous genitalia, female - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Clitoromegaly - Congenital adrenal hyperplasia - Decreased circulating aldosterone level - Decreased circulating renin level - Decreased testicular size - Hyperpigmentation of the skin - Hypertension - Hypokalemia - Hypoplasia of the uterus - Hypoplasia of the vagina - Long penis - Neonatal onset - Precocious puberty in males - Short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Sclerosing mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia ?
Answer: Sclerosing mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia (SMECE) is a type of cancer that most commonly affects the thyroid gland, but has been reported in the salivary gland as well. Signs and symptoms include a painless neck mass. Many people with mucoepidermoid carcinomas are women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. The prevalence of SMECE is unknown, but only around 50 cases have been described in the medical literature. SMECE most commonly presents between 40 to 75 years of age. SMECE was initially considered a "low-grade" tumor, however cases of SMECE spreading locally to lymph nodes and to distant organs have been described. While data is limited, with treatment it appears that prognosis is typically good.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy affects an estimated 1 in 500 people worldwide. It is the most common genetic heart disease in the United States.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Leukemia ?
Answer: Researchers are studying various drugs, immunotherapies, and other types of treatments. Because leukemia is a complicated disease, researchers are also studying the effectiveness of using combinations of treatments. Following are a few examples of some areas of current research. The drug imatinib (Gleevec) is important in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia. However, imatinib stops working in some people with leukemia because the cells become resistant. Fortunately, two drugs, dasatinib (Sprycel) and nilotinib (Tasigna), are being used to treat people who stop responding to imatinib. Both are approved by the FDA for use in patients. These drugs work against the same abnormal protein targeted by imatinib, but in different ways. Gene therapy -- replacing, manipulating, or supplementing nonfunctional genes with healthy genes -- is being explored for treatment of leukemia. It is being studied as a way to stimulate a patient's immune system to kill leukemia cells and also to interfere with the production of proteins that cause cells to become cancerous.  Learn more about ongoing leukemia research.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: How many people are affected by branchio-oculo-facial syndrome ?
Answer: Branchio-oculo-facial syndrome is a rare condition, although the prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome ?
Answer: Dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome appears to be a rare disease; only about 20 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature. Researchers believe that the condition is probably underdiagnosed because its signs and symptoms overlap with cerebral palsy and other movement disorders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Diffuse gastric cancer ?
Answer: Diffuse gastric cancer or signet ring cell cancer is a type of cancer found most often in the glandular cells lining the stomach, but can also develop in the bowel, breast, pancreas, bladder, prostate or lung. The 2010 WHO (World Health Organization) classification recognizes four major histologic patterns of gastric cancers: tubular, papillary, mucinous and poorly cohesive (including signet ring cell carcinoma), plus uncommon histologic variants. The term "signet ring cell" is often used because the cells look like signet rings when viewed under a microscope. The signet cells are a type of epithelial cell. Epithelial tissue is skin tissue, covering and lining the body both inside and out. When diffuse gastric cancer is inherited it is called "hereditary diffuse gastric cancer." Treatment depends on the stage at which the cancer is found and may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or operations to remove the stomach (gastrectomy).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to multiple familial trichoepithelioma ?
Answer: Multiple familial trichoepithelioma can be caused by mutations in the CYLD gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that helps regulate nuclear factor-kappa-B. Nuclear factor-kappa-B is a group of related proteins that help protect cells from self-destruction (apoptosis) in response to certain signals. In regulating the action of nuclear factor-kappa-B, the CYLD protein allows cells to respond properly to signals to self-destruct when appropriate, such as when the cells become abnormal. By this mechanism, the CYLD protein acts as a tumor suppressor, which means that it helps prevent cells from growing and dividing too fast or in an uncontrolled way.  People with CYLD-related multiple familial trichoepithelioma are born with a mutation in one of the two copies of the CYLD gene in each cell. This mutation prevents the cell from making functional CYLD protein from the altered copy of the gene. However, enough protein is usually produced from the other, normal copy of the gene to regulate cell growth effectively. For tumors to develop, a second mutation or deletion of genetic material involving the other copy of the CYLD gene must occur in certain cells during a person's lifetime.  When both copies of the CYLD gene are mutated in a particular cell, that cell cannot produce any functional CYLD protein. The loss of this protein allows the cell to grow and divide in an uncontrolled way to form a tumor. In people with multiple familial trichoepithelioma, a second CYLD mutation typically occurs in multiple cells over an affected person's lifetime. The loss of CYLD protein in these cells leads to the growth of skin appendage tumors.  Some researchers consider multiple familial trichoepithelioma and two related conditions called familial cylindromatosis and Brooke-Spiegler syndrome, which are also caused by CYLD gene mutations, to be different forms of the same disorder. It is unclear why mutations in the CYLD gene cause different patterns of skin appendage tumors in each of these conditions, or why the tumors are generally confined to the skin in these disorders.  Some people with multiple familial trichoepithelioma do not have mutations in the CYLD gene. Scientists are working to identify the genetic cause of the disorder in these individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Stroke ?
Answer: The signs and symptoms of a stroke often develop quickly. However, they can develop over hours or even days.
                
The type of symptoms depends on the type of stroke and the area of the brain thats affected. How long symptoms last and how severe they are vary among different people.
                
Signs and symptoms of a stroke may include:
                
Sudden weakness
                
Paralysis (an inability to move) or numbness of the face, arms, or legs, especially on one side of the body
                
Confusion
                
Trouble speaking or understanding speech
                
Trouble seeing in one or both eyes
                
Problems breathing
                
Dizziness, trouble walking, loss of balance or coordination, and unexplained falls
                
Loss of consciousness
                
Sudden and severe headache
                
A transient ischemic attack (TIA) has the same signs and symptoms as a stroke. However, TIA symptoms usually last less than 12 hours (although they may last up to 24 hours). A TIA may occur only once in a persons lifetime or more often.
                
At first, it may not be possible to tell whether someone is having a TIA or stroke. All stroke-like symptoms require medical care.
                
If you think you or someone else is having a TIA or stroke, call 911 right away. Do not drive to the hospital or let someone else drive you. Call an ambulance so that medical personnel can begin life-saving treatment on the way to the emergency room. During a stroke, every minute counts.
                
Stroke Complications
                
After youve had a stroke, you may develop other complications, such as:
                
Blood clots and muscle weakness. Being immobile (unable to move around) for a long time can raise your risk of developing blood clots in the deep veins of the legs. Being immobile also can lead to muscle weakness and decreased muscle flexibility.
                
Problems swallowing and pneumonia. If a stroke affects the muscles used for swallowing, you may have a hard time eating or drinking. You also may be at risk of inhaling food or drink into your lungs. If this happens, you may develop pneumonia.
                
Loss of bladder control. Some strokes affect the muscles used to urinate. You may need a urinary catheter (a tube placed into the bladder) until you can urinate on your own. Use of these catheters can lead to urinary tract infections. Loss of bowel control or constipation also may occur after a stroke.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Hanhart syndrome ?
Answer: How is Hanhart syndrome treated? Because Hanhart syndrome affects many different systems of the body, medical management is often provided by a team of doctors and other healthcare professionals. Treatment for this condition varies because it depends on the signs and symptoms present in each person. For example, limb and/or craniofacial abnormalities may be treated with surgery and/or prostheses. Affected children may also need speech therapy, physical therapy, and/or occupational therapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Achondrogenesis type 2 ?
Answer: Achondrogenesis is a group of severe disorders that are present from birth and affect the development of cartilage and bone. Infants with achondrogenesis usually have a small body, short arms and legs, and other skeletal abnormalities that cause life-threatening complications.  There are at least three forms of achondrogenesis, type 1A, type 1B and type 2, which are distinguished by signs and symptoms, pattern of inheritance, and the results of imaging studies such as x-rays (radiology), tissue analysis (histology), and genetic testing.  Type 1A and 1B achondrogenesis are both inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.  Type 1B may be caused by mutations in the SLC26A2 gene.  Type 2 achondrogenesis is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and is caused by new (de novo) mutations in the COL2A1 gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for small fiber neuropathy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of small fiber neuropathy:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Small fiber neuropathy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immune deficiency ?
Answer: Mutations in the IKBKG gene cause X-linked recessive EDA-ID, and mutations in the NFKBIA gene cause autosomal dominant EDA-ID. The proteins produced from these two genes regulate nuclear factor-kappa-B. Nuclear factor-kappa-B is a group of related proteins (a protein complex) that binds to DNA and controls the activity of other genes, including genes that direct the body's immune responses and inflammatory reactions. It also protects cells from certain signals that would otherwise cause them to self-destruct (undergo apoptosis).  The IKBKG and NFKBIA gene mutations responsible for EDA-ID result in the production of proteins with impaired function, which reduces activation of nuclear factor-kappa-B. These changes disrupt certain signaling pathways within immune cells, resulting in immune deficiency. It is unclear how gene mutations alter the development of the skin, teeth, sweat glands, and other tissues, although it is likely caused by abnormal nuclear factor-kappa-B signaling in other types of cells.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Biliary Atresia? ?
Answer: Biliary atresia is rare and only affects about one out of every 18,000 infants.1 The disease is more common in females, premature babies, and children of Asian or African American heritage.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to chronic atrial and intestinal dysrhythmia ?
Answer: CAID is caused by mutations in the SGO1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making part of a protein complex called cohesin. This protein complex helps control the placement of chromosomes during cell division. Before cells divide, they must copy all of their chromosomes. The copied DNA from each chromosome is arranged into two identical structures, called sister chromatids, which are attached to one another during the early stages of cell division. Cohesin holds the sister chromatids together, and in doing so helps maintain the stability of chromosomal structure during cell division.  Researchers suggest that SGO1 gene mutations may result in a cohesin complex that is less able to hold sister chromatids together, resulting in decreased chromosomal stability during cell division. This instability is thought to cause early aging (senescence) of cells in the intestinal muscle and in the SA node, resulting in problems maintaining proper rhythmic movements of the heart and intestines and leading to the signs and symptoms of CAID.  It is unclear why SGO1 gene mutations specifically affect the heart and intestines in CAID. Researchers suggest that the activity (expression) of the SGO1 gene in certain embryonic tissues or a particular function of the SGO1 protein in the SA node and in cells that help control peristalsis may account for the features of the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Achard syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Achard syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Achard syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Arachnodactyly - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Brachycephaly - Broad skull - Joint laxity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia ?
Answer: Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) is a condition characterized mainly by a loss of the muscle functions involved in eye and eyelid movement. Signs and symptoms tend to begin in early adulthood and most commonly include weakness or paralysis of the muscles that move the eye (ophthalmoplegia) and drooping of the eyelids (ptosis). Some affected individuals also have general weakness of the skeletal muscles (myopathy), which may be especially noticeable during exercise. Muscle weakness may also cause difficulty swallowing (dysphagia). CPEO can be caused by mutations in any of several genes, which may be located in mitochondrial DNA or nuclear DNA. It has different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved in the affected individual. CPEO can occur as part of other underlying conditions, such as ataxia neuropathy spectrum and Kearns-Sayre syndrome. These conditions may not only involve CPEO, but various additional features that are not shared by most individuals with CPEO.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Down Syndrome ?
Answer: Down syndrome is a condition in which a person is born with an extra copy of chromosome 21. People with Down syndrome can have physical problems, as well as intellectual disabilities. Every person born with Down syndrome is different.    People with the syndrome may also have other health problems. They may be born with heart disease. They may have dementia. They may have hearing problems and problems with the intestines, eyes, thyroid, and skeleton.    The chance of having a baby with Down syndrome increases as a woman gets older. Down syndrome cannot be cured. Early treatment programs can help improve skills. They may include speech, physical, occupational, and/or educational therapy. With support and treatment, many people with Down syndrome live happy, productive lives.    NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Hashimoto's syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hashimoto's syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hashimoto's syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autoimmune antibody positivity - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hashimoto thyroiditis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Epidermolysis bullosa inherited ?
Answer: How is epidermolysis bullosa inherited? Inherited epidermolysis bullosa (EB) may follow either an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive inheritance pattern, depending on the type and subtype of inherited EB in the affected person. Epidermolysis bullosa simplex (the most common type of EB) is mainly autosomal dominant, except for a few rare autosomal recessive subtypes. Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB) can be inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive manner, depending on the subtype present. However, dominant DEB is the second most common major type of EB. Junctional epidermolysis bullosa is autosomal recessive, although one article stated that an autosomal dominant form has recently been reported. Kindler syndrome is only inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. A condition is autosomal dominant if having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene from the affected parent. Many people with an autosomal dominant form of EB have an affected parent, but in some cases a mutation in the responsible gene occurs for the first time in a person with no family history of EB (called a de novo mutation). A person with a de novo mutation still has a 50% chance to pass the mutation on to each of his/her children. In autosomal recessive inheritance, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell to be affected. Typically, an affected person inherits one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene from each parent, who are referred to as carriers. Carriers usually do not have symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% risk to not be a carrier and not be affected. Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (acquired EB) is a rare autoimmune disorder and is not inherited.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma? ?
Answer: Age, gender, and a weakened immune system can affect the risk of adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.    These and other risk factors may increase the risk of certain types of adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma:         - Being older, male, or white.    - Having one of the following medical conditions:               - An inherited immune disorder (such as hypogammaglobulinemia or Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome).      - An autoimmune disease (such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, or Sjgren syndrome).      - HIV/AIDS.      - Human T-lymphotrophic virus type I or Epstein-Barr virus infection.      - Helicobacter pylori infection.             - Taking immunosuppressant drugs after an organ transplant.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Anemia ?
Answer: If you have anemia, your blood does not carry enough oxygen to the rest of your body. The most common cause of anemia is not having enough iron. Your body needs iron to make hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that gives the red color to blood. It carries oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body.    Anemia has three main causes: blood loss, lack of red blood cell production, and high rates of red blood cell destruction.    Conditions that may lead to anemia include       - Heavy periods    - Pregnancy    - Ulcers    - Colon polyps or colon cancer    - Inherited disorders    - A diet that does not have enough iron, folic acid or vitamin B12    - Blood disorders such as sickle cell anemia and thalassemia, or cancer    - Aplastic anemia, a condition that can be inherited or acquired    - G6PD deficiency, a metabolic disorder       Anemia can make you feel tired, cold, dizzy, and irritable. You may be short of breath or have a headache.    Your doctor will diagnose anemia with a physical exam and blood tests. Treatment depends on the kind of anemia you have.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Camptodactyly syndrome Guadalajara type 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Camptodactyly syndrome Guadalajara type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Camptodactyly syndrome Guadalajara type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the pinna - Absent phalangeal crease - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Camptodactyly - Delayed skeletal maturation - Flat face - Hypertelorism - Intellectual disability, mild - Joint contracture of the hand - Malar flattening - Micropenis - Muscular hypotonia - Nevus - Retrognathia - Short neck - Small hypothenar eminence - Small thenar eminence - Spina bifida occulta - Telecanthus - Torticollis - Webbed neck - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Acinetobacter in Healthcare Settings ?
Answer: Acinetobacter is often resistant to many commonly prescribed antibiotics. Decisions on treatment of infections with Acinetobacter should be made on a case-by-case basis by a healthcare provider. Acinetobacter infection typically occurs in ill patients and can either cause or contribute to death in these patients.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What is (are) infantile systemic hyalinosis ?
Answer: Infantile systemic hyalinosis is a disorder that severely affects many areas of the body, including the skin, joints, bones, and internal organs. Hyalinosis refers to the abnormal accumulation of a clear (hyaline) substance in body tissues. The signs and symptoms of this condition are present at birth or develop within the first few months of life. Infantile systemic hyalinosis is characterized by painful skin bumps that frequently appear on the hands, neck, scalp, ears, and nose. They also develop in joint creases and the genital region. These skin bumps may be large or small and often increase in number over time.  Lumps of noncancerous tissue also form in the muscles and internal organs of children with infantile systemic hyalinosis, causing pain and severe complications. Most affected individuals develop a condition called protein-losing enteropathy due to the formation of lumps in their intestines. This condition results in severe diarrhea, failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive), and general wasting and weight loss (cachexia).  Infantile systemic hyalinosis is also characterized by overgrowth of the gums (gingival hypertrophy). Additionally, people with this condition have joint deformities (contractures) that impair movement. Affected individuals may grow slowly and have bone abnormalities.  Although children with infantile systemic hyalinosis have severe physical limitations, mental development is typically normal. Affected individuals often do not survive beyond early childhood due to chronic diarrhea and recurrent infections.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Norum disease ?
Answer: What causes Norum disease? Norum disease is caused by defects in the LCAT gene. The clinical manifestations of LCAT deficiency are probably due to a defect in LCAT-mediated cholesterol ester formation and, therefore, accumulation of unesterified cholesterol in certain tissues, such as the cornea, kidneys, and erythrocytes (red blood cells).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Glaucoma ?
Answer: Although open-angle glaucoma cannot be cured, it can usually be controlled. While treatments may save remaining vision, they do not improve sight already lost from glaucoma. The most common treatments for glaucoma are medication and surgery. Medications  Medications for glaucoma may be either in the form of eye drops or pills. Some drugs reduce pressure by slowing the flow of fluid into the eye. Others help to improve fluid drainage. (Watch the video to learn more about coping with glaucoma. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) For most people with glaucoma, regular use of medications will control the increased fluid pressure. But, these drugs may stop working over time. Or, they may cause side effects. If a problem occurs, the eye care professional may select other drugs, change the dose, or suggest other ways to deal with the problem.  Read or listen to ways some patients are coping with glaucoma. Surgery Laser surgery is another treatment for glaucoma. During laser surgery, a strong beam of light is focused on the part of the anterior chamber where the fluid leaves the eye. This results in a series of small changes that makes it easier for fluid to exit the eye. Over time, the effect of laser surgery may wear off. Patients who have this form of surgery may need to keep taking glaucoma drugs. Researching Causes and Treatments Through studies in the laboratory and with patients, NEI is seeking better ways to detect, treat, and prevent vision loss in people with glaucoma. For example, researchers have discovered genes that could help explain how glaucoma damages the eye. NEI also is supporting studies to learn more about who is likely to get glaucoma, when to treat people who have increased eye pressure, and which treatment to use first.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Essential tremor ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Essential tremor? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Essential tremor. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Dysarthria - Hand tremor - Postural tremor - Progressive - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Congenital radio-ulnar synostosis ?
Answer: What causes congenital radio-ulnar synostosis? Congenital radio-ulnar synostosis is caused by abnormal development of the forearm bones in the fetal period, although the underlying cause of the developmental abnormality is not always known. The condition may be isolated (occur without other abnormalities) or it may be associated with various other skeletal, cardiac (heart), neurologic, or gastrointestinal abnormalities. When other abnormalities are present, the condition may be due to an underlying genetic cause, including a variety of syndromes or chromosome abnormalities. In some cases, congenital radio-ulnar synostosis appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In an article published in 2000, the authors found that autosomal dominant radio-ulnar synostosis with amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia was caused by mutations in the HOXA11 gene in 2 families.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Sexual and Urologic Problems of Diabetes? ?
Answer: Risk factors are conditions that increase the chances of getting a particular disease. The more risk factors people have, the greater their chances of developing that disease or condition. Diabetic neuropathy and related sexual and urologic problems appear to be more common in people who
                
- have poor blood glucose control  - have high levels of blood cholesterol  - have high blood pressure  - are overweight  - are older than 40  - smoke  - are physically inactive
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Donnai-Barrow syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the LRP2 gene cause Donnai-Barrow syndrome. The LRP2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called megalin, which functions as a receptor. Receptor proteins have specific sites into which certain other proteins, called ligands, fit like keys into locks. Together, ligands and their receptors trigger signals that affect cell development and function. Megalin has many ligands involved in various body processes, including the absorption of vitamins A and D, immune functioning, stress response, and the transport of fats in the bloodstream.  Megalin is embedded in the membrane of cells that line the surfaces and cavities of the body (epithelial cells). The receptor helps move its ligands from the cell surface into the cell (endocytosis). It is active in the development and function of many parts of the body, including the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system), eyes, ears, lungs, intestine, reproductive system, and the small tubes in the kidneys where urine is formed (renal tubules).  LRP2 gene mutations that cause Donnai-Barrow syndrome are believed to result in the absence of functional megalin protein. The lack of functional megalin in the renal tubules causes megalin's various ligands to be excreted in the urine rather than being absorbed back into the bloodstream. The features of Donnai-Barrow syndrome are probably caused by the inability of megalin to help absorb these ligands, disruption of biochemical signaling pathways, or other effects of the nonfunctional megalin protein. However, it is unclear how these abnormalities result in the specific signs and symptoms of the disorder.  A condition previously classified as a separate disorder called facio-oculo-acoustico-renal (FOAR) syndrome has also been found to be caused by LRP2 mutations. FOAR syndrome is now considered to be the same disorder as Donnai-Barrow syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by cystinosis ?
Answer: Cystinosis affects approximately 1 in 100,000 to 200,000 newborns worldwide. The incidence is higher in the province of Brittany, France, where the disorder affects 1 in 26,000 individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Noonan syndrome ?
Answer: Noonan syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 1,000 to 2,500 people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Chromosome 3p- syndrome ?
Answer: How might chromosome 3p- syndrome be treated? Because chromosome 3p- syndrome affects many different systems of the body, medical management is often provided by a team of doctors and other healthcare professionals. Treatment for this deletion varies based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. For example, children with delayed motor milestones (i.e. walking) and/or muscle problems may be referred for physical or occupational therapy. Severe feeding difficulties may be treated temporarily with a nasogastric tube or a gastrostomy tube to ensure that a baby or child gets enough nutrients. Certain medications may be prescribed to treat seizures. Special education services are often necessary for children with intellectual disability. Surgery may be required to treat certain physical abnormalities such as cleft palate or congenital heart defects, if present. Please speak to your healthcare provider if you have any questions about your personal medical management plan.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Viral Gastroenteritis ?
Answer: The main symptoms of viral gastroenteritis are
                
- watery diarrhea  - vomiting
                
Other symptoms include
                
- headache  - fever  - chills  - abdominal pain
                
Symptoms usually appear within 12 to 48 hours after exposure to a gastroenteritis-causing virus and last for 1 to 3 days. Some viruses cause symptoms that last longer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is glycogen storage disease type I inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency inherited? Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency is an X-linked disorder. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), mutations in both copies of the gene will cause the disorder. Some females with only one altered copy of the OTC gene also show signs and symptoms of OTC deficiency.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Sandhoff Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a part of the National Institutes of Health, the largest supporter of biomedical research in the world. The NINDS, along with other NIH Institutes, supports the Lysosomal Disease Network, a network of centers that addresses some of the major challenges in the diagnosis, management, and therapy of rare diseases, including the lipid storage diseases. Research funded by the NINDS focuses on better understanding of how neurological deficits rise in lipid storage diseases and on the development of new treatments targeting disease mechanisms, including gene therapies, cell-based therapies, and pharmacological approaches. NINDS funded research on the gangliosidoses includes variations of magnetic resonance imaging to develop a biomarker (a sign that may indicate risk of a disease and improve diagnosis) to effectively evaluate brain biochemistry and disease progression, and expanding the use of virus-delivered gene therapy seen in an animal model of Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases for use in humans.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Glutaric acidemia type I ?
Answer: Glutaric acidemia type I (GA1) is an inherited disorder in which the body can't process certain proteins properly. People with GA1 have inadequate levels of an enzyme needed to break down certain amino acids. These amino acids and their intermediate breakdown products can accumulate, causing damage to the brain (particularly the basal ganglia, which helps control movement). Specific symptoms and severity vary, but features may include macrocephaly; difficulty moving; having jerking, rigidity, or decreased muscle tone; and/or intellectual disability. GA1 is caused by mutations in the GCDH gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment includes strict dietary control, which may limit progression of symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection ?
Answer: The tests used to diagnose pyelonephritis depend on the patients age, gender, and response to treatment and include the following:
                
- Urinalysis. Urinalysis is testing of a urine sample. The urine sample is collected in a special container in a health care providers office or commercial facility and can be tested in the same location or sent to a lab for analysis. The presence of white blood cells and bacteria in the urine indicate infection.  - Urine culture. A urine culture is performed by placing part of a urine sample in a tube or dish with a substance that encourages any bacteria present to grow. The urine sample is collected in a special container in a health care providers office or commercial facility and sent to a lab for culture. Once the bacteria have multiplied, which usually takes 1 to 3 days, they can be identified. The health care provider can then determine the best treatment.  - Ultrasound. Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaging; anesthesia is not needed. The images can show obstructions in the urinary tract. Ultrasound is often used for people who do not respond to treatment within 72 hours.  - Computerized tomography (CT) scan. CT scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create three-dimensional (3-D) images. A CT scan may include the injection of a special dye, called contrast medium. CT scans require the person to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed. CT scans can show obstructions in the urinary tract. The test is often used for people who do not respond to treatment within 72 hours.  - Voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG). A VCUG is an x-ray image of the bladder and urethra taken while the bladder is full and during urination, also called voiding. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician supervised by a radiologist, who then interprets the images. Anesthesia is not needed, but sedation may be used for some people. The bladder and urethra are filled with contrast medium to make the structures clearly visible on the x-ray images. The x-ray machine captures images of the contrast medium while the bladder is full and when the person urinates. This test can show abnormalities of the inside of the urethra and bladder and is usually used to detect VUR in children.  - Digital rectal examination (DRE). A DRE is a physical exam of the prostate that is performed in the health care providers office. Anesthesia is not needed. To perform the exam, the health care provider asks the person to bend over a table or lie on his side while holding his knees close to his chest. The health care provider slides a gloved, lubricated finger into the rectum and feels the part of the prostate that lies in front of the rectum. Men with suspected pyelonephritis may have a DRE to determine whether a swollen prostate may be obstructing the neck of the bladder.  - Dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) scintigraphy. DMSA scintigraphy is an imaging technique that relies on the detection of small amounts of radiation after injection of radioactive material. Because the dose of radioactive material is small, the risk of causing damage to cells is low. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed. Radioactive material is injected into a vein in the persons arm and travels through the body to the kidneys. Special cameras and computers are used to create images of the radioactive material as it passes through the kidneys. The radioactive material makes the parts of the kidney that are infected or scarred stand out on the image. DMSA scintigraphy is used to show the severity of kidney infection or kidney damage, such as scarring.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: 3-beta ()-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD) deficiency is an inherited disorder that affects hormone-producing glands including the gonads (ovaries in females and testes in males) and the adrenal glands. The gonads direct sexual development before birth and during puberty. The adrenal glands, which are located on top of the kidneys, regulate the production of certain hormones and control salt levels in the body. People with 3-HSD deficiency lack many of the hormones that are made in these glands. 3-HSD deficiency is one of a group of disorders known as congenital adrenal hyperplasias that impair hormone production and disrupt sexual development and maturation.  There are three types of 3-HSD deficiency: the salt-wasting, non-salt-wasting, and non-classic types. In the salt-wasting type, hormone production is extremely low. Individuals with this type lose large amounts of sodium in their urine, which can be life-threatening. Individuals affected with the salt-wasting type are usually diagnosed soon after birth due to complications related to a lack of salt reabsorption, including dehydration, poor feeding, and vomiting. People with the non-salt-wasting type of 3-HSD deficiency produce enough hormone to allow sodium reabsorption in the kidneys. Individuals with the non-classic type have the mildest symptoms and do not experience salt wasting.  In males with any type of 3-HSD deficiency, problems with male sex hormones lead to abnormalities of the external genitalia. These abnormalities range from having the opening of the urethra on the underside of the penis (hypospadias) to having external genitalia that do not look clearly male or female (ambiguous genitalia). The severity of the genital abnormality does not consistently depend on the type of the condition. Because of the hormone dysfunction in the testes, males with 3-HSD deficiency are frequently unable to have biological children (infertile).  Females with 3-HSD deficiency may have slight abnormalities of the external genitalia at birth. Females affected with the non-salt-wasting or non-classic types are typically not diagnosed until mid-childhood or puberty, when they may experience irregular menstruation, premature pubic hair growth, and excessive body hair growth (hirsutism). Females with 3-HSD deficiency have difficulty conceiving a child (impaired fertility).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria ?
Answer: Bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria (BPP) is a rare neurological disorder that affects the cerebral cortex (the outer surface of the brain). Signs and symptoms include partial paralysis of muscles on both sides of the face, tongue, jaws, and throat; difficulties in speaking, chewing, and swallowing; and/or seizures. In most cases, mild to severe intellectual disability is also present. While the exact cause of BPP is not fully understood, it is thought to be due to improper brain development during embryonic growth. Most cases of BPP occur sporadically in people with no family history of the disorder; however, more than one family member may rarely be affected by the condition. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer among American men. It is a slow-growing disease that mostly affects older men. In fact, more than 60 percent of all prostate cancers are found in men over the age of 65. The disease rarely occurs in men younger than 40 years of age.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Yellow nail syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Yellow nail syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Yellow nail syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of nail color 90% Abnormality of the bronchi 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Lymphedema 90% Abnormality of the pleura 50% Recurrent respiratory infections 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Sinusitis 50% Neoplasm 7.5% Abnormality of the musculature - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hypoplasia of lymphatic vessels - Predominantly lower limb lymphedema - Slow-growing nails - Yellow nails - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Lung Cancer ?
Answer: Common Signs and Symptoms When lung cancer first develops, there may be no symptoms at all. But if the cancer grows, it can cause changes that people should watch for. Common signs and symptoms of lung cancer include: - a cough that doesn't go away and gets worse over time  - constant chest pain  - coughing up blood  - shortness of breath, wheezing, or hoarseness  - repeated problems with pneumonia or bronchitis  - swelling of the neck and face  - loss of appetite or weight loss  - fatigue. a cough that doesn't go away and gets worse over time constant chest pain coughing up blood shortness of breath, wheezing, or hoarseness repeated problems with pneumonia or bronchitis swelling of the neck and face loss of appetite or weight loss fatigue. These symptoms may be caused by lung cancer or by other conditions. It is important to check with a doctor if you have symptoms because only a doctor can make a diagnosis. Don't wait to feel pain. Early cancer usually doesn't cause pain. Tests for Lung Cancer To better understand a persons chance of developing lung cancer, a doctor first evaluates a person's medical history, smoking history, their exposure to environmental and occupational substances, and family history of cancer. The doctor also performs a physical exam and may order a test to take an image of the chest or other tests. Seeing a spot on an image is usually how a doctor first suspects that lung cancer may be present. If lung cancer is suspected, the doctor may order a test called sputum cytology. This is a simple test where, under a microscope, a doctor examines a sample of mucous cells coughed up from the lungs under a microscope to see if cancer is present. Biopsies to Detect Lung Cancer But to confirm the presence of lung cancer, the doctor must examine fluid or tissue from the lung. This is done through a biopsy -- the removal of a small sample of fluid or tissue for examination under a microscope by a pathologist. A biopsy can show whether a person has cancer. A number of procedures may be used to obtain this tissue. - Bronchoscopy -- The doctor puts a bronchoscope -- a thin, lighted tube -- into the mouth or nose and down through the windpipe to look into the breathing passages. Through this tube, the doctor can collect cells or small samples of tissue.  - Needle Aspiration -- The doctor numbs the chest area and inserts a thin needle into the tumor to remove a sample of tissue.  - Thoracentesis - Using a needle, the doctor removes a sample of the fluid that surrounds the lungs to check for cancer cells.  - Thorascopy or Thoracotomy -- Surgery to open the chest is sometimes needed to diagnose lung cancer. This procedure is a major operation performed in a hospital. Bronchoscopy -- The doctor puts a bronchoscope -- a thin, lighted tube -- into the mouth or nose and down through the windpipe to look into the breathing passages. Through this tube, the doctor can collect cells or small samples of tissue. Needle Aspiration -- The doctor numbs the chest area and inserts a thin needle into the tumor to remove a sample of tissue. Thoracentesis - Using a needle, the doctor removes a sample of the fluid that surrounds the lungs to check for cancer cells. Thorascopy or Thoracotomy -- Surgery to open the chest is sometimes needed to diagnose lung cancer. This procedure is a major operation performed in a hospital. Other Tests Doctors use imaging methods such as a spiral CT scan (also commonly known as helical CT) to look for signs of cancer. A CT scan, also known as computerized tomography scan, is a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. Other tests can include removal of lymph nodes for examination under a microscope to check for cancer cells. Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped structures found throughout the body. They filter substances in a fluid called lymph and help fight infection and disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is Fatal familial insomnia inherited ?
Answer: How is fatal familial insomnia inherited? Fatal familial insomnia (FFI) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with FFI has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter ?
Answer: The prevalence of leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter is unknown. Although it is a rare disorder, it is believed to be one of the most common inherited diseases that affect the white matter.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) mucopolysaccharidosis type III ?
Answer: Mucopolysaccharidosis type III (MPS III), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome, is a progressive disorder that mainly affects the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system).  People with MPS III generally do not display any features of the condition at birth, but they begin to show signs and symptoms of the disorder during early childhood. Affected children often initially have delayed speech and behavior problems. They may become restless, destructive, anxious, or aggressive. Sleep disturbances are also very common in children with MPS III. This condition causes progressive intellectual disability and the loss of previously acquired skills (developmental regression). In later stages of the disorder, people with MPS III may develop seizures and movement disorders.  The physical features of MPS III are less pronounced than those of other types of mucopolysaccharidosis. Individuals with MPS III typically have mildly "coarse" facial features, a large head (macrocephaly), a slightly enlarged liver (mild hepatomegaly), and a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia) or lower abdomen (inguinal hernia). Some people with MPS III have short stature, joint stiffness, or mild dysostosis multiplex, which refers to multiple skeletal abnormalities seen on x-ray. Affected individuals often develop chronic diarrhea and recurrent upper respiratory and ear infections. People with MPS III may also experience hearing loss and vision problems.  MPS III is divided into types IIIA, IIIB, IIIC, and IIID, which are distinguished by their genetic cause. The different types of MPS III have similar signs and symptoms, although the features of MPS IIIA typically appear earlier in life and progress more rapidly. People with MPS III usually live into adolescence or early adulthood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Retroperitoneal fibrosis ?
Answer: What causes retroperitoneal fibrosis? The cause of retroperitoneal fibrosis is unknown in many cases (idiopathic). Some cases occur in association with other factors, including: Asbestos exposure Smoking Neoplasms (tumor) Infections Trauma Radiotherapy Surgery Use of certain drugs
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Thyroid hormone plasma membrane transport defect ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Thyroid hormone plasma membrane transport defect? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Thyroid hormone plasma membrane transport defect. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Euthyroid hyperthyroxinemia - Goiter - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Childhood Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for children who have central nervous system (CNS) embryonal tumors.    - Children who have CNS embryonal tumors should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating brain tumors in children.     - Childhood brain tumors may cause signs or symptoms that begin before the cancer is diagnosed and continue for months or years.    - Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment has ended.     - Five types of treatment are used:         - Surgery     - Radiation therapy     - Chemotherapy     - High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue     - Targeted therapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.    - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for children who have central nervous system (CNS) embryonal tumors.
                    Different types of treatment are available for children with central nervous system (CNS) embryonal tumors. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment.    Because cancer in children is rare, taking part in a clinical trial should be considered. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Children who have CNS embryonal tumors should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating brain tumors in children.
                    Treatment will be overseen by a pediatric oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating children with cancer. The pediatric oncologist works with other pediatric health care providers who are experts in treating children with brain tumors and who specialize in certain areas of medicine. These may include the following specialists:          -  Pediatrician.    -  Neurosurgeon.    -  Neurologist.    -  Neuropathologist.    -  Neuroradiologist.    -  Rehabilitation specialist.    -  Radiation oncologist.    -  Psychologist.
                
                
                    Childhood brain tumors may cause signs or symptoms that begin before the cancer is diagnosed and continue for months or years.
                    Signs or symptoms caused by the tumor may begin before the cancer is diagnosed and continue for months or years. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about signs or symptoms caused by the tumor that may continue after treatment.
                
                
                    Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment has ended.
                    Side effects from cancer treatment that begin during or after treatment and continue for months or years are called late effects. Late effects of cancer treatment may include the following:         - Physical problems.    - Changes in mood, feelings, thinking, learning, or memory.    -  Second cancers (new types of cancer).        Children diagnosed with medulloblastoma may have certain problems after surgery or radiation therapy such as changes in the ability to think, learn, and pay attention. Also, cerebellar mutism syndrome may occur after surgery. Signs of this syndrome include the following:         - Delayed ability to speak.    - Trouble swallowing and eating.    - Loss of balance, trouble walking, and worsening handwriting.    - Loss of muscle tone.    - Mood swings and changes in personality.        Some late effects may be treated or controlled. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about the effects cancer treatment can have on your child. (See the PDQ summary on Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer for more information).
                
                
                    Five types of treatment are used:
                    Surgery    Surgery is used to diagnose and treat a childhood CNS embryonal tumor as described in the General Information section of this summary.     Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, some patients may be given chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer. Certain ways of giving radiation therapy can help keep radiation from damaging nearby healthy tissue. These types of radiation therapy include the following:                  -  Conformal radiation therapy: Conformal radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy that uses a computer to make a 3-dimensional (3-D) picture of the tumor and shapes the radiation beams to fit the tumor. This allows a high dose of radiation to reach the tumor and causes less damage to nearby healthy tissue.       -  Stereotactic radiation therapy: Stereotactic radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy. A rigid head frame is attached to the skull to keep the head still during the radiation treatment. A machine aims radiation directly at the tumor, causing less damage to nearby healthy tissue. The total dose of radiation is divided into several smaller doses given over several days. This procedure is also called stereotactic external-beam radiation therapy and stereotaxic radiation therapy.                -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           Radiation therapy to the brain can affect growth and development in young children. For this reason, clinical trials are studying new ways of giving radiation that may have fewer side effects than standard methods.    The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat childhood CNS embryonal tumors.    Because radiation therapy can affect growth and brain development in young children, especially children who are three years old or younger, chemotherapy may be given to delay or reduce the need for radiation therapy.        Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Combination chemotherapy is treatment using more than one anticancer drug. The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type of cancer being treated.     Regular dose anticancer drugs given by mouth or vein to treat central nervous system tumors cannot cross the blood-brain barrier and enter the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. Instead, an anticancer drug is injected into the fluid-filled space to kill cancer cells that may have spread there. This is called intrathecal or intraventricular chemotherapy.          High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.       Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do.     Signal transduction inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy used to treat recurrent medulloblastoma. Signal transduction inhibitors block signals that are passed from one molecule to another inside a cell. Blocking these signals may kill cancer cells. Vismodegib is a type of signal transduction inhibitor.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. (See the General Information section for a list of tests.) Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests. This is sometimes called re-staging.   Some of the imaging tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your child's condition has changed or if the brain tumor has recurred (come back). If the imaging tests show abnormal tissue in the brain, a biopsy may also be done to find out if the tissue is made up of dead tumor cells or if new cancer cells are growing. These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
                
							            Treatment Options for Childhood Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors and Childhood Pineoblastoma
							            
							                
							                    Newly Diagnosed Childhood Medulloblastoma
							                    In newly diagnosed childhood medulloblastoma, the tumor itself has not been treated. The child may have received drugs or treatment to relieve signs or symptoms caused by the tumor.    Children older than 3 years with average-risk medulloblastoma     Standard treatment of average-risk medulloblastoma in children older than 3 years includes the following:         -  Surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible. This is followed by radiation therapy to the brain and spinal cord. Chemotherapy is also given during and after radiation therapy.    - Surgery to remove the tumor, radiation therapy, and high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue.         Children older than 3 years with high-risk medulloblastoma    Standard treatment of high-risk medulloblastoma in children older than 3 years includes the following:         - Surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible. This is followed by a larger dose of radiation therapy to the brain and spinal cord than the dose given for average-risk medulloblastoma. Chemotherapy is also given during and after radiation therapy.    - Surgery to remove the tumor, radiation therapy, and high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue.    - A clinical trial of new combinations of radiation therapy and chemotherapy.         Children aged 3 years and younger    Standard treatment of medulloblastoma in children aged 3 years and younger is:         - Surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible, followed by chemotherapy.        Other treatments that may be given after surgery include the following:         - Chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy to the area where the tumor was removed.    - High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with untreated childhood medulloblastoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
							                
							                
							                    Newly Diagnosed Childhood Nonmedulloblastoma Embryonal Tumors
							                    In newly diagnosed childhood nonmedulloblastoma embryonal tumors, the tumor itself has not been treated. The child may have received drugs or treatment to relieve symptoms caused by the tumor.    Children older than 3 years     Standard treatment of nonmedulloblastoma embryonal tumors in children older than 3 years is:         -  Surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible. This is followed by radiation therapy to the brain and spinal cord. Chemotherapy is also given during and after radiation therapy.         Children aged 3 years and younger    Standard treatment of nonmedulloblastoma embryonal tumors in children aged 3 years and younger is:         - Surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible, followed by chemotherapy.        Other treatments that may be given after surgery include the following:         - Chemotherapy and radiation therapy to the area where the tumor was removed.    -  High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with untreated childhood nonmedulloblastoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
							                
							                
							                    Newly Diagnosed Childhood Medulloepithelioma
							                    In newly diagnosed childhood medulloepithelioma, the tumor itself has not been treated. The child may have received drugs or treatment to relieve symptoms caused by the tumor.     Children older than 3 years     Standard treatment of medulloepithelioma in children older than 3 years includes the following:         -  Surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible. This is followed by radiation therapy to the brain and spinal cord. Chemotherapy is also given during and after radiation therapy.    - Surgery to remove the tumor, radiation therapy, and high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue.    - A clinical trial of new combinations of radiation therapy and chemotherapy.         Children aged 3 years and younger    Standard treatment of medulloepithelioma in children aged 3 years and younger includes the following:         - Surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible, followed by chemotherapy.    - High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue.    - Radiation therapy, when the child is older.     - A clinical trial of new combinations and schedules of chemotherapy or new combinations of chemotherapy with stem cell rescue.        Treatment of medulloepithelioma in children aged 3 years and younger is often within a clinical trial.    Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood medulloepithelioma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
							                
							                
							                    Newly Diagnosed Childhood Pineoblastoma
							                    In newly diagnosed childhood pineoblastoma, the tumor itself has not been treated. The child may have received drugs or treatment to relieve symptoms caused by the tumor.    Children older than 3 years     Standard treatment of pineoblastoma in children older than 3 years includes the following:         -  Surgery to remove the tumor. The tumor usually cannot be completely removed because of where it is in the brain. Surgery is often followed by radiation therapy to the brain and spinal cord and chemotherapy.     - A clinical trial of high-dose chemotherapy after radiation therapy and stem cell rescue.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy during radiation therapy.         Children aged 3 years and younger    Standard treatment of pineoblastoma in children aged 3 years and younger includes the following:         -  Biopsy to diagnose pineoblastoma followed by chemotherapy.    - If the tumor responds to chemotherapy, radiation therapy is given when the child is older.    -  High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with untreated childhood pineoblastoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
							                
							                
							                    Recurrent Childhood Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors and Pineoblastomas
							                    The treatment of central nervous system (CNS) embryonal tumors and pineoblastoma that recur (come back) depends on:         - The type of tumor.    - Whether the tumor recurred where it first formed or has spread to other parts of the brain, spinal cord, or body.    - The type of treatment given in the past.    - How much time has passed since the initial treatment ended.    - Whether the patient has signs or symptoms.        Treatment for recurrent childhood CNS embryonal tumors and pineoblastomas may include the following:         - For children who previously received radiation therapy and chemotherapy, treatment may include repeat radiation at the site where the cancer started and where the tumor has spread. Stereotactic radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy may also be used.    - For infants and young children who previously received chemotherapy only and have a local recurrence, treatment may be chemotherapy with radiation therapy to the tumor and the area close to it. Surgery to remove the tumor may also be done.    - For patients who previously received radiation therapy, high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell rescue may be used. It is not known whether this treatment improves survival.    -  Targeted therapy with a signal transduction inhibitor for patients whose cancer has certain changes in the genes.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent childhood central nervous system embryonal tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How to diagnose Pigmented villonodular synovitis ?
Answer: How is pigmented villonodular synovitis diagnosed? Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) is diagnosed via physician examination, imaging studies, and sometimes surgical procedures. Imaging studies commonly used include: X-ray, MRI, and CT scan. MRI findings are diagnostic in more than 95% of patients. CT scan findings are additionally often diagnostic, though they might not show the extent of the disease. Other methods that might be utilized in the diagnostic process include joint aspiration, in which a needle is used to remove fluid from the joint and a biopsy, in which a small operation is completed to obtain a tissue sample.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) common variable immune deficiency ?
Answer: Common variable immune deficiency (CVID) is a disorder that impairs the immune system. People with CVID are highly susceptible to infection from foreign invaders such as bacteria, or more rarely, viruses and often develop recurrent infections, particularly in the lungs, sinuses, and ears. Pneumonia is common in people with CVID. Over time, recurrent infections can lead to chronic lung disease. Affected individuals may also experience infection or inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, which can cause diarrhea and weight loss. Abnormal accumulation of immune cells causes enlarged lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy) or an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly) in some people with CVID. Immune cells can accumulate in other organs, forming small lumps called granulomas.  Approximately 25 percent of people with CVID have an autoimmune disorder, which occurs when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's tissues and organs. The blood cells are most frequently affected by autoimmune attacks in CVID; the most commonly occurring autoimmune disorders are immune thrombocytopenia purpura, which is an abnormal bleeding disorder caused by a decrease in platelets, and autoimmune hemolytic anemia, which results in premature destruction of red blood cells. Other autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis can occur. Individuals with CVID also have a greater than normal risk of developing certain types of cancer, including a cancer of immune system cells called non-Hodgkin lymphoma and less frequently, stomach (gastric) cancer.  People with CVID may start experiencing signs and symptoms of the disorder anytime between childhood and adulthood. The life expectancy of individuals with CVID varies depending on the severity and frequency of illnesses they experience. Most people with CVID live into adulthood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Diabetic Heart Disease ?
Answer: Some people who have diabetic heart disease (DHD) may have no signs or symptoms of heart disease. This is called silent heart disease. Diabetes-related nerve damage that blunts heart pain may explain why symptoms aren't noticed.
                
Thus, people who have diabetes should have regular medical checkups. Tests may reveal a problem before they're aware of it. Early treatment can reduce or delay related problems.
                
Some people who have DHD will have some or all of the typical symptoms of heart disease. Be aware of the symptoms described below and seek medical care if you have them.
                
If you think you're having a heart attack, call 911 right away for emergency care. Treatment for a heart attack works best when it's given right after symptoms occur.
                
Coronary Heart Disease
                
A common symptom of coronary heart disease (CHD) is angina. Angina is chest pain or discomfort that occurs if your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood.
                
Angina may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. You also may feel it in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion. The pain tends to get worse with activity and go away with rest. Emotional stress also can trigger the pain.
                
See your doctor if you think you have angina. He or she may recommend tests to check your coronary arteries and to see whether you have CHD risk factors.
                
Other CHD signs and symptoms include nausea (feeling sick to your stomach), fatigue (tiredness), shortness of breath, sweating, light-headedness, and weakness.
                
Some people don't realize they have CHD until they have a heart attack. A heart attack occurs if a blood clot forms in a coronary artery and blocks blood flow to part of the heart muscle.
                
The most common heart attack symptom is chest pain or discomfort. Most heart attacks involve discomfort in the center or left side of the chest that often lasts for more than a few minutes or goes away and comes back.
                
The discomfort can feel like uncomfortable pressure, squeezing, fullness, or pain. The feeling can be mild or severe. Heart attack pain sometimes feels like indigestion or heartburn. Shortness of breath may occur with or before chest discomfort.
                
Heart attacks also can cause upper body discomfort in one or both arms, the back, neck, jaw, or upper part of the stomach. Other heart attack symptoms include nausea, vomiting, light-headedness or sudden dizziness, breaking out in a cold sweat, sleep problems, fatigue, and lack of energy.
                
Some heart attack symptoms are similar to angina symptoms. Angina pain usually lasts for only a few minutes and goes away with rest. Chest pain or discomfort that doesn't go away or changes from its usual pattern (for example, occurs more often or while you're resting) can be a sign of a heart attack.
                
If you don't know whether your chest pain is angina or a heart attack, call 911 right away for emergency care.
                
Not everyone who has a heart attack has typical symptoms. If you've already had a heart attack, your symptoms may not be the same for another one. Also, diabetes-related nerve damage can interfere with pain signals in the body. As a result, some people who have diabetes may have heart attacks without symptoms.
                
Heart Failure
                
The most common symptoms of heart failure are shortness of breath or trouble breathing, fatigue, and swelling in the ankles, feet, legs, abdomen, and veins in your neck. As the heart weakens, heart failure symptoms worsen.
                
People who have heart failure can live longer and more active lives if the condition is diagnosed early and they follow their treatment plans. If you have any form of DHD, talk with your doctor about your risk of heart failure.
                
Diabetic Cardiomyopathy
                
Diabetic cardiomyopathy may not cause symptoms in its early stages. Later, you may have weakness, shortness of breath, a severe cough, fatigue, and swelling of the legs and feet.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the voice 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the earlobes 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Fine hair 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Microcephaly 90% Micromelia 90% Reduced number of teeth 90% Abnormality of female external genitalia 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 50% Cafe-au-lait spot 50% Dry skin 50% Full cheeks 50% Hypopigmented skin patches 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Microdontia 50% Scoliosis 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 50% Truncal obesity 50% Underdeveloped nasal alae 50% Wide nasal bridge 50% Anemia 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 7.5% Blepharophimosis 7.5% Cerebral ischemia 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Cone-shaped epiphysis 7.5% Ivory epiphyses 7.5% Laryngomalacia 7.5% Long clavicles 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Precocious puberty 7.5% Recurrent respiratory infections 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Straight clavicles 7.5% Thin clavicles 7.5% Tracheal stenosis 7.5% Ventriculomegaly 7.5% Distal symphalangism 5% Hypoplastic scapulae 5% Large sella turcica 5% Limited elbow extension 5% Narrow chest 5% Short middle phalanx of finger 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebral aneurysm - Coxa vara - Disproportionate short stature - Flared metaphysis - High pitched voice - Hypermetropia - Hypoplasia of dental enamel - Hypoplastic iliac wing - Hypospadias - Intellectual disability - Microtia - Moyamoya phenomenon - Narrow pelvis bone - Postnatal growth retardation - Prominent nasal bridge - Prominent nose - Proximal femoral epiphysiolysis - Pseudoepiphyses of the metacarpals - Radial bowing - Retrognathia - Short 1st metacarpal - Short distal phalanx of finger - Slender long bone - Sloping forehead - Sparse scalp hair - Tibial bowing - Type II diabetes mellitus - Ulnar bowing - Upslanted palpebral fissure - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) frontonasal dysplasia ?
Answer: Frontonasal dysplasia is a condition that results from abnormal development of the head and face before birth. People with frontonasal dysplasia have at least two of the following features: widely spaced eyes (ocular hypertelorism); a broad nose; a slit (cleft) in one or both sides of the nose; no nasal tip; a central cleft involving the nose, upper lip, or roof of the mouth (palate); incomplete formation of the front of the skull with skin covering the head where bone should be (anterior cranium bifidum occultum); or a widow's peak hairline.  Other features of frontonasal dysplasia can include additional facial malformations, absence or malformation of the tissue that connects the left and right halves of the brain (the corpus callosum), and intellectual disability.  There are at least three types of frontonasal dysplasia that are distinguished by their genetic causes and their signs and symptoms. In addition to the features previously described, each type of frontonasal dysplasia is associated with other distinctive features. Individuals with frontonasal dysplasia type 1 typically have abnormalities of the nose, a long area between the nose and upper lip (philtrum), and droopy upper eyelids (ptosis). Individuals with frontonasal dysplasia type 2 can have hair loss (alopecia) and an enlarged opening in the two bones that make up much of the top and sides of the skull (enlarged parietal foramina). Males with this form of the condition often have genital abnormalities. Features of frontonasal dysplasia type 3 include eyes that are missing (anophthalmia) or very small (microphthalmia) and low-set ears that are rotated backward. Frontonasal dysplasia type 3 is typically associated with the most severe facial abnormalities, but the severity of the condition varies widely, even among individuals with the same type.  Life expectancy of affected individuals depends on the severity of the malformations and whether or not surgical intervention can improve associated health problems, such as breathing and feeding problems caused by the facial clefts.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Potocki-Shaffer syndrome ?
Answer: How might Potocki-Shaffer be treated? The treatment depends on the signs and symptoms present in the affected individual. The following treatment options or recommendations might be offered: Treatment of Wilms tumor, which may include surgery to remove the kidney, radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Treatment of aniridia is aimed at maintaining vision. Glaucoma or cataracts can be treated with medication or surgery. Contact lenses should be avoided because they can damage the cornea. In cases of abnormalities in the testes or ovaries, surgery may be needed to remove them or to prevent cancer (gonadoblastoma). After they testes or ovaries are removed hormone replacement is needed. Children with undescended testicles (cryptorchidism) may also need surgery. In a study with 6 patients and a review of 31 previously reported cases of Potocki-Shaffer syndrome, the researchers made several recommendations for the care of children with the syndrome. These include: Referral to early childhood intervention and a developmental-behavioral specialist at the time of diagnosis; A full skeletal survey at diagnosis or by age three; Screening for strabismus and nystagmus by the pediatrician (at every well-child examination), and referral to a pediatric ophthalmologist at diagnosis or by age six months; Hearing loss evaluations in infants with the syndrome and after that at three months of age; audiogram at age one year and annually thereafter; Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies and genetic counseling should be offered to the parents of a child with Potocki-Shaffer syndrome; Referral to a specialist in development and behavior at the time of diagnosis for vision therapy, physical, occupational and speech therapy; Abdominal and kidney ultrasound due to the possible risk of developing a Wilms' tumor, especially in those individuals who have a deletion in the 11p13 region;  Cardiac evaluation to detect any heart abnormalities; Thyroid hormone level measurements to detect the hypothyroidism; and MRI scans are recommended if the individual has seizures, microcephaly, or global developmental delay.  Some individuals with Potocki-Shaffer syndrome, WAGR syndrome, and renal insufficiency may be treated with dialysis or kidney transplant.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Volcanoes
Answer: Summary : A volcano is a vent in the Earth's crust. Hot rock, steam, poisonous gases, and ash reach the Earth's surface when a volcano erupts. An eruption can also cause earthquakes, mudflows and flash floods, rock falls and landslides, acid rain, fires, and even tsunamis.    Volcanic gas and ash can damage the lungs of small infants, older adults, and people with severe respiratory illnesses. Volcanic ash can affect people hundreds of miles away from the eruption.    Although there are no guarantees of safety during a volcanic eruption, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan. Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope.    Federal Emergency Management Agency
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Familial juvenile hyperuricaemic nephropathy ?
Answer: Familial juvenile hyperuricaemic nephropathy (FJHN) is an inherited condition that affects the kidneys. The signs and symptoms vary, even among members of the same family. Many individuals with this condition develop high blood levels of a waste product called uric acid. Normally, the kidneys remove uric acid from the blood and transfer it to urine. In FJHN, the kidneys are unable to remove uric acid from the blood effectively. Beginning in the early teens, FJHN causes gout and slowly progressive kidney disease, resulting in kidney failure. People with FJHN typically require either dialysis to remove wastes from the blood or a kidney transplant. FJHN is caused by mutations in the UMOD gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Al Gazali Sabrinathan Nair syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Al Gazali Sabrinathan Nair syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Al Gazali Sabrinathan Nair syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Optic atrophy 90% Recurrent fractures 90% Seizures 90% Wormian bones 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Occipital horn syndrome ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for occipital horn syndrome?
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome ?
Answer: Autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome (AD-HIES), also known as Job syndrome, is a condition that affects several body systems, particularly the immune system. Recurrent infections are common in people with this condition. Affected individuals tend to have frequent bouts of pneumonia, which are caused by certain kinds of bacteria that infect the lungs and cause inflammation. These infections often result in the formation of air-filled cysts (pneumatoceles) in the lungs. Recurrent skin infections and an inflammatory skin disorder called eczema are also very common in AD-HIES. These skin problems cause rashes, blisters, accumulations of pus (abscesses), open sores, and scaling.  AD-HIES is characterized by abnormally high levels of an immune system protein called immunoglobulin E (IgE) in the blood. IgE normally triggers an immune response against foreign invaders in the body, particularly parasitic worms, and plays a role in allergies. It is unclear why people with AD-HIES have such high levels of IgE.  AD-HIES also affects other parts of the body, including the bones and teeth. Many people with AD-HIES have skeletal abnormalities such as an unusually large range of joint movement (hyperextensibility), an abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis), reduced bone density (osteopenia), and a tendency for bones to fracture easily. Dental abnormalities are also common in this condition. The primary (baby) teeth do not fall out at the usual time during childhood but are retained as the adult teeth grow in. Other signs and symptoms of AD-HIES can include abnormalities of the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle (coronary arteries), distinctive facial features, and structural abnormalities of the brain, which do not affect a person's intelligence.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Goldenhar disease ?
Answer: Goldenhar disease is a condition that is present at birth and mainly affects the development of the eye, ear and spine. Affected individuals commonly have a partially formed ear (microtia) or totally absent ear (anotia), noncancerous (benign) growths of the eye (ocular dermoid cysts), and spinal abnormalities. Goldenhar disease may also affect the facial structure, heart, lungs, kidneys, and central nervous system. The underlying cause of the condition remains unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Ebola
Answer: Summary : Ebola hemorrhagic fever is caused by a virus. It is a severe and often fatal disease. It can affect humans and other primates. Researchers believe that the virus first spreads from an infected animal to a human. It can then spread from human to human through direct contact with a patient's blood or secretions.    Symptoms of Ebola may appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after exposure to the virus. Symptoms usually include       - Fever    - Headache    - Joint and muscle aches    - Weakness    - Diarrhea    - Vomiting    - Stomach pain    - Lack of appetite       Other symptoms including rash, red eyes, and internal and external bleeding, may also occur.    The early symptoms of Ebola are similar to other, more common, diseases. This makes it difficult to diagnose Ebola in someone who has been infected for only a few days. However, if a person has the early symptoms of Ebola and there is reason to suspect Ebola, the patient should be isolated. It is also important to notify public health professionals. Lab tests can confirm whether the patient has Ebola.    There is no cure for Ebola. Treatment involves supportive care such as fluids, oxygen, and treatment of complications. Some people who get Ebola are able to recover, but many do not.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for myotonic dystrophy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of myotonic dystrophy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Myotonic Dystrophy Type 1  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Myotonic Dystrophy Type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myotonic dystrophy type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Steinert myotonic dystrophy syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Muscular Dystrophy  - University of Washington: Myotonic Dystrophy: Making an Informed Choice About Genetic Testing   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Diverticular Disease ?
Answer: Diverticulitis can attack suddenly and cause complications, such as
                
- an abscessa painful, swollen, pus-filled area just outside the colon wallcaused by infection  - a perforationa small tear or hole in the diverticula  - peritonitisinflammation of tissues inside the abdomen from pus and stool that leak through a perforation  - a fistulaan abnormal passage, or tunnel, between two organs, or between an organ and the outside of the body  - intestinal obstructionpartial or total blockage of movement of food or stool through the intestines
                
These complications need to be treated to prevent them from getting worse and causing serious illness. In some cases, surgery may be needed.
                
Abscess, perforation, and peritonitis. Antibiotic treatment of diverticulitis usually prevents or treats an abscess. If the abscess is large or does not clear up with antibiotics, it may need to be drained. After giving the person numbing medication, a radiologist inserts a needle through the skin to the abscess and then drains the fluid through a catheter. The procedure is usually guided by an abdominal ultrasound or a CT scan. Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure.
                
A person with a perforation usually needs surgery to repair the tear or hole. Sometimes, a person needs surgery to remove a small part of the intestine if the perforation cannot be repaired.
                
A person with peritonitis may be extremely ill, with nausea, vomiting, fever, and severe abdominal tenderness. This condition requires immediate surgery to clean the abdominal cavity and possibly a colon resection at a later date after a course of antibiotics. A blood transfusion may be needed if the person has lost a significant amount of blood. Without prompt treatment, peritonitis can be fatal.
                
Fistula. Diverticulitis-related infection may lead to one or more fistulas. Fistulas usually form between the colon and the bladder, small intestine, or skin. The most common type of fistula occurs between the colon and the bladder. Fistulas can be corrected with a colon resection and removal of the fistula.
                
Intestinal obstruction. Diverticulitis-related inflammation or scarring caused by past inflammation may lead to intestinal obstruction. If the intestine is completely blocked, emergency surgery is necessary, with possible colon resection. Partial blockage is not an emergency, so the surgery or other procedures to correct it can be scheduled.
                
When urgent surgery with colon resection is necessary for diverticulitis, two procedures may be needed because it is not safe to rejoin the colon right away. During the colon resection, the surgeon performs a temporary colostomy, creating an opening, or stoma, in the abdomen. The end of the colon is connected to the opening to allow normal eating while healing occurs. Stool is collected in a pouch attached to the stoma on the abdominal wall. In the second surgery, several months later, the surgeon rejoins the ends of the colon and closes the stoma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is juvenile Paget disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for lung cancer ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of lung cancer:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lung cancer  - Genetic Testing Registry: Non-small cell lung cancer  - Lung Cancer Mutation Consortium: About Mutation Testing  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Lung Cancer--Non-Small Cell  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Lung Cancer--Small Cell  - National Cancer Institute: Drugs Approved for Lung Cancer  - National Cancer Institute: Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Treatment  - National Cancer Institute: Small Cell Lung Cancer Treatment   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the stages of Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - After childhood soft tissue sarcoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    After childhood soft tissue sarcoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the soft tissue or to other parts of the body is called staging. There is no standard staging system for childhood soft tissue sarcoma.    In order to plan treatment, it is important to know the type of soft tissue sarcoma, whether the tumor can be removed by surgery, and whether cancer has spread to other parts of the body.   The following procedures may be used to find out if cancer has spread:         -   Sentinel lymph node biopsy: A sentinel lymph node biopsy is done to check if cancer has spread to the lymph nodes. The sentinel lymph node is the first lymph node to receive lymphatic drainage from a tumor. It is the first lymph node the cancer is likely to spread to from the tumor. A small amount of a radioactive substance and/or blue dye is injected near the tumor. The radioactive substance or dye flows through the lymph ducts to the lymph nodes. The first lymph node to receive the substance or dye is removed. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. If cancer cells are not found, it may not be necessary to remove more lymph nodes. This procedure is used for epithelioid and clear cell sarcoma.     -   PET scan: A PET scan is a procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do. This procedure is also called positron emission tomography (PET) scan.    -   PET-CT scan: A procedure that combines the pictures from a PET scan and a computed tomography (CT) scan. The PET and CT scans are done at the same time on the same machine. The pictures from both scans are combined to make a more detailed picture than either test would make by itself.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if soft tissue sarcoma spreads to the lung, the cancer cells in the lung are soft tissue sarcoma cells. The disease is metastatic soft tissue sarcoma, not lung cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) juvenile Batten disease ?
Answer: Juvenile Batten disease is an inherited disorder that primarily affects the nervous system. After a few years of normal development, children with this condition develop progressive vision loss, intellectual and motor disability, speech difficulties, and seizures.  Vision impairment is often the first noticeable sign of juvenile Batten disease, beginning between the ages of 4 and 8 years. Vision loss tends to progress rapidly, eventually resulting in blindness.  After vision impairment has begun, children with juvenile Batten disease experience the loss of previously acquired skills (developmental regression), usually beginning with the ability to speak in complete sentences. Affected children also have difficulty learning new information. In addition to the intellectual decline, affected children lose motor skills such as the ability to walk or sit. They also develop movement abnormalities that include rigidity or stiffness, slow or diminished movements (hypokinesia), and stooped posture. Affected children may have recurrent seizures (epilepsy), heart problems, behavioral problems, difficulty sleeping, and problems with attention that begin in mid- to late childhood. Most people with juvenile Batten disease live into their twenties or thirties.  Juvenile Batten disease is one of a group of disorders known as neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs). These disorders all affect the nervous system and typically cause progressive problems with vision, movement, and thinking ability. The different types of NCLs are distinguished by the age at which signs and symptoms first appear. Some people refer to the entire group of NCLs as Batten disease, while others limit that designation to the juvenile form of the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Anemia of Inflammation and Chronic Disease ?
Answer: - Anemia is a condition in which a person has a lower than normal number of red blood cells or the amount of hemoglobin in the red blood cells drops below normal, which prevents the bodys cells from getting enough oxygen.  - Anemia of inflammation and chronic disease (AI/ACD) is a type of anemia that commonly occurs with chronic illnesses, infections, cancer, or inflammatory disorders.  - AI/ACD typically develops slowly and, because it is usually mild, may cause few or no symptoms. Sometimes, AI/ACD can cause or contribute to fatigue, weakness, pale skin, a fast heartbeat, shortness of breath, and exercise intolerance.  - To diagnose AI/ACD, a health care provider orders a blood test called a complete blood count (CBC).  - AI/ACD often is not treated separately from the condition with which it occurs. In general, health care providers focus on treating the underlying illness.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for deafness and myopia syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of deafness and myopia syndrome:  - Baby's First Test: Hearing Loss  - EyeSmart: Eyeglasses for Vision Correction  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Deafness and Myopia Syndrome  - Harvard Medical School Center for Hereditary Deafness  - KidsHealth: Hearing Evaluation in Children  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Cochlear Implant  - MedlinePlus Health Topic: Cochlear Implants  - MedlinePlus Health Topic: Hearing Aids  - MedlinePlus Health Topic: Newborn Screening   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) familial restrictive cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: Familial restrictive cardiomyopathy is a genetic form of heart disease. For the heart to beat normally, the heart (cardiac) muscle must contract and relax in a coordinated way. Oxygen-rich blood from the lungs travels first through the upper chambers of the heart (the atria), and then to the lower chambers of the heart (the ventricles).  In people with familial restrictive cardiomyopathy, the heart muscle is stiff and cannot fully relax after each contraction. Impaired muscle relaxation causes blood to back up in the atria and lungs, which reduces the amount of blood in the ventricles.  Familial restrictive cardiomyopathy can appear anytime from childhood to adulthood. The first signs and symptoms of this condition in children are failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive), extreme tiredness (fatigue), and fainting. Children who are severely affected may also have abnormal swelling or puffiness (edema), increased blood pressure, an enlarged liver, an abnormal buildup of fluid in the abdominal cavity (ascites), and lung congestion. Some children with familial restrictive cardiomyopathy do not have any obvious signs or symptoms, but they may die suddenly due to heart failure. Without treatment, the majority of affected children survive only a few years after they are diagnosed.  Adults with familial restrictive cardiomyopathy typically first develop shortness of breath, fatigue, and a reduced ability to exercise. Some individuals have an irregular heart beat (arrhythmia) and may also experience a sensation of fluttering or pounding in the chest (palpitations) and dizziness. Abnormal blood clots are commonly seen in adults with this condition. Without treatment, approximately one-third of adults with familial restrictive cardiomyopathy do not survive more than five years after diagnosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is popliteal pterygium syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 inherited ?
Answer: How is primary hyperoxaluria type 2 inherited? Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to leptin receptor deficiency ?
Answer: Leptin receptor deficiency is caused by mutations in the LEPR gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called the leptin receptor, which is involved in the regulation of body weight. The leptin receptor protein is found on the surface of cells in many organs and tissues of the body including a part of the brain called the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus controls hunger and thirst as well as other functions such as sleep, moods, and body temperature. It also regulates the release of many hormones that have functions throughout the body.  The leptin receptor is turned on (activated) by a hormone called leptin that attaches (binds) to the receptor, fitting into it like a key into a lock. Normally, the body's fat cells release leptin in proportion to their size. As fat cells become larger, they produce more leptin. This rise in leptin indicates that fat stores are increasing. In the hypothalamus, the binding of leptin to its receptor triggers a series of chemical signals that affect hunger and help produce a feeling of fullness (satiety).  LEPR gene mutations that cause leptin receptor deficiency prevent the receptor from responding to leptin, leading to the excessive hunger and weight gain associated with this disorder. Because hypogonadotropic hypogonadism occurs in leptin receptor deficiency, researchers suggest that leptin receptor signaling is also involved in regulating the body's response to hormones that control sexual development, and that this response is affected by LEPR gene mutations. However, the mechanism of this effect is unknown.  Leptin receptor deficiency is a rare cause of obesity. Researchers are studying the factors involved in more common forms of obesity.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Kabuki syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Kabuki syndrome:  - Boston Children's Hospital  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Kabuki Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Kabuki make-up syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Kabuki syndrome 2   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload ?
Answer: Hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload is likely a rare disorder; at least five affected families have been reported in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Melnick-Needles syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis syndrome ?
Answer: Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis (SCT) syndrome is an inherited syndrome characterized by disproportionate short stature, abnormalities of the vertebrae in the spine, scoliosis and lordosis, carpal and tarsal fusion (fusion of the bones in the hands and feet), clubfoot, and facial abnormalities such as round face, large forehead, and up-turned nostrils. Other features can include cleft palate, deafness, loose joints, and poor formation of tooth enamel. SCT syndrome has been associated with retinal anomalies and cataracts. However, these eye problems are usually not severe enough to impair vision. This condition is caused by mutations in the FLNB gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner in families, which means that parents are usually unaffected and children have to have inherited a gene mutation from each parent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They are located just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine. Every day, the two kidneys filter about 120 to 150 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine, which is composed of wastes and extra fluid. Children produce less urine than adultsthe amount they produce depends on their age. The urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through the two ureters, one on each side of the bladder. The bladder stores urine. The muscles of the bladder wall remain relaxed while the bladder fills with urine. As the bladder fills to capacity, signals sent to the brain tell a person to find a toilet soon. When the bladder empties, urine flows out of the body through a tube called the urethra, located at the bottom of the bladder.
                
The kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra are parts of the urinary tract. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, the kidneys and the urinary tract.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is vitamin D-dependent rickets inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Gastroparesis ?
Answer: Gastroparesis, also called delayed gastric emptying, is a disorder that slows or stops the movement of food from the stomach to the small intestine. Normally, the muscles of the stomach, which are controlled by the vagus nerve, contract to break up food and move it through the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food. Gastroparesis can occur when the vagus nerve is damaged by illness or injury and the stomach muscles stop working normally. Food then moves slowly from the stomach to the small intestine or stops moving altogether.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Noonan syndrome 3 ?
Answer: How might Noonan syndrome be treated? Management generally focuses on the specific signs and symptoms present in each person. Treatments for the complications of Noonan syndrome (such as cardiovascular abnormalities) are generally standard and do not differ from treatment in the general population. Developmental disabilities are addressed by early intervention programs and individualized education strategies. Treatment for serious bleeding depends upon the specific factor deficiency or platelet abnormality. Growth hormone treatment increases growth velocity. More detailed information about treatment for Noonan syndrome can be viewed on the GeneReviews Web site.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Alzheimer's Caregiving ?
Answer: Alzheimers disease has three stages: early (also called mild), middle (moderate), and late (severe). Understanding these stages can help you care for your loved one and plan ahead. A person in the early stage of Alzheimers disease may find it hard to remember things, ask the same questions over and over, lose things, or have trouble handling money and paying bills. As Alzheimers disease progresses to the middle stage, memory loss and confusion grow worse, and people may have problems recognizing family and friends. Other symptoms at this stage may include difficulty learning new things and coping with new situations; trouble carrying out tasks that involve multiple steps, like getting dressed; forgetting the names of common things; and wandering away from home. As Alzheimers disease becomes more severe, people lose the ability to communicate. They may sleep more, lose weight, and have trouble swallowing. Often they are incontinentthey cannot control their bladder and/or bowels. Eventually, they need total care.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Dry Eye ?
Answer: Poor Tear Production Dry eye occurs when the eye does not produce tears properly, or when the tears are of poor quality and dry up quickly. The eyes need tears for overall eye health and clear vision. Dry eye can last a short time or it can be an ongoing condition. It can include a variety of symptoms, such as discomfort and pain. Your eyes may sting and burn and you may have redness and a sandy or gritty feeling, as if something is in your eye. You may have blurry vision and your eyes may feel tired. Having dry eyes can make it harder to do some activities, such as using a computer or reading for a long period of time, and it can make it hard to be in dry places, such as on an airplane.  Tears and Eye Health Tears are necessary for overall eye health and clear vision. The eye constantly makes tears to bathe, nourish, and protect the cornea. The cornea is the clear, dome-shaped outer surface that covers the eye in front of the iris, which is the colored part of the eye. The eye also makes tears in response to emergencies, such as a particle of dust in the eye, an infection or irritation of the eye, or an onset of strong emotions. Tears keep the eye moist, and wash away dust and debris. They also help protect the eye from infections. Tears are made of proteins (including growth factors), body salts, and vitamins that maintain the health of the eye surface and prevent infection.  Tear Components Tears have three major components. - an outer, oily, fat layer produced by the meibomian glands (located in the eyelids)  - a middle, watery, layer produced by the lacrimal glands (located just above the upper, outer corner of the eye)  - an inner, mucous layer produced by goblet cells (located within a thin clear layer which covers the white part of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelids called the conjunctiva). an outer, oily, fat layer produced by the meibomian glands (located in the eyelids) a middle, watery, layer produced by the lacrimal glands (located just above the upper, outer corner of the eye) an inner, mucous layer produced by goblet cells (located within a thin clear layer which covers the white part of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelids called the conjunctiva). When the lacrimal glands do not make enough tears, dry eye can result. Any disease process that changes the components of tears can make them unhealthy and result in dry eye. Type of Dry Eye There are two types of dry eye: aqueous tear-deficient dry eye and evaporative dry eye. Aqueous tear-deficient dry eye is a disorder in which the tear glands do not produce enough of the watery component of tears to maintain a healthy cornea. Evaporative dry eye may result from inflammation of the meibomian glands, located in the eyelids. These glands make the oily part of tears that slows evaporation and keeps the tears stable. Most people with dry eye will not have serious problems, but severe dry eye may lead to inflammation, ulcers, or scars on the cornea, and some loss of vision. Permanent loss of vision from dry eye is uncommon.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Alzheimer's Caregiving ?
Answer: Eating healthy foods helps us stay well. It's even more important for people with Alzheimers disease.  When a person with Alzheimer's lives with you --  -  Buy healthy foods such as vegetables, fruits, and whole-grain products. Be sure to buy foods that the person likes and can eat.   - Buy food that is easy to prepare, such as pre-made salads and single food portions.   - Have someone else make meals if possible.   - Use a service such as Meals on Wheels, which will bring meals right to your home. For more information, check your local phone book, or contact the Meals on Wheels organization at 1 (888) 998-6325.  Buy healthy foods such as vegetables, fruits, and whole-grain products. Be sure to buy foods that the person likes and can eat. Buy food that is easy to prepare, such as pre-made salads and single food portions. Have someone else make meals if possible. Use a service such as Meals on Wheels, which will bring meals right to your home. For more information, check your local phone book, or contact the Meals on Wheels organization at 1 (888) 998-6325. (Watch the video to learn about simplifying mealtimes for a person with Alzheimer's. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)  When a person with early-stage Alzheimers lives alone -- - Follow the steps above  - Buy foods that the person doesn't need to cook.   - Call to remind him or her to eat. Follow the steps above Buy foods that the person doesn't need to cook. Call to remind him or her to eat. In the early stage of Alzheimers disease, the person's eating habits usually don't change. When changes do occur, living alone may not be safe anymore. Look for these signs to see if living alone is no longer safe for the person with Alzheimers. - The person forgets to eat.   - Food has burned because it was left on the stove.  - The oven isn't turned off. The person forgets to eat. Food has burned because it was left on the stove. The oven isn't turned off.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Chromosome 1q41-q42 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: Chromosome 1q41-q42 deletion syndrome is characterized by a small, but variable deletion in a particular place on the long arm of one copy of chromosome 1, usually spanning several genes. There have been variable features described in the literature, and individuals have ranged from being mildly to severely affected. Features may include poor feeding in infancy; developmental delay including delayed or absent speech; and moderate to severe intellectual disability. Other features may include hypotonia; short stature; seizures; heart defects; structural brain anomalies (most commonly underdevelopment of the corpus callosum); genitourinary abnormalities; cleft palate; microcephaly; vision problems; hearing loss; and other abnormalities. Some may have characteristic facial features. Researchers have suggested the features are caused by disruption of several genes. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner; although most cases do not have a family history of this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Fecal Incontinence ?
Answer: Dietary changes that may improve fecal incontinence include
                
- Eating the right amount of fiber. Fiber can help with diarrhea and constipation. Fiber is found in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and beans. Fiber supplements sold in a pharmacy or in a health food store are another common source of fiber to treat fecal incontinence. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics recommends consuming 20 to 35 grams of fiber a day for adults and age plus five grams for children. A 7-year-old child, for example, should get 7 plus five, or 12, grams of fiber a day. American adults consume only 15 grams a day on average.2 Fiber should be added to the diet slowly to avoid bloating.  - Getting plenty to drink. Drinking eight 8-ounce glasses of liquid a day may help prevent constipation. Water is a good choice. Drinks with caffeine, alcohol, milk, or carbonation should be avoided if they trigger diarrhea.
                
Keeping a Food Diary   A food diary can help identify foods that cause diarrhea and increase the risk of fecal incontinence. A food diary should list foods eaten, portion size, and when fecal incontinence occurs. After a few days, the diary may show a link between certain foods and fecal incontinence. Eating less of foods linked to fecal incontinence may improve symptoms. A food diary can also be helpful to a health care provider treating a person with fecal incontinence.   Common foods and drinks linked to fecal incontinence include   - dairy products such as milk, cheese, and ice cream   - drinks and foods containing caffeine   - cured or smoked meat such as sausage, ham, and turkey   - spicy foods   - alcoholic beverages   - fruits such as apples, peaches, and pears   - fatty and greasy foods   - sweeteners in diet drinks and sugarless gum and candy, including sorbitol, xylitol, mannitol, and fructose
                

                
Examples of Foods That Have Fiber        Beans, cereals, and breads    Fiber         cup of beans (navy, pinto, kidney, etc.), cooked    6.29.6 grams         cup of shredded wheat, ready-to-eat cereal    2.73.8 grams         cup of 100% bran, ready-to-eat cereal    9.1 grams        1 small oat bran muffin    3.0 grams        1 whole-wheat English muffin    4.4 grams        Fruits        1 small apple, with skin    3.6 grams        1 medium pear, with skin    5.5 grams         cup of raspberries    4.0 grams         cup of stewed prunes    3.8 grams        Vegetables         cup of winter squash, cooked    2.9 grams         1 medium sweet potato, baked in skin    3.8 grams         cup of green peas, cooked    3.54.4 grams        1 small potato, baked, with skin    3.0 grams         cup of mixed vegetables, cooked    4.0 grams         cup of broccoli, cooked    2.62.8 grams          cup of greens (spinach, collards, turnip greens), cooked    2.53.5 grams
                

                
Medications
                
If diarrhea is causing fecal incontinence, medication may help. Health care providers sometimes recommend using bulk laxatives, such as Citrucel and Metamucil, to develop more solid stools that are easier to control. Antidiarrheal medications such as loperamide or diphenoxylate may be recommended to slow down the bowels and help control the problem.
                
Bowel Training
                
Developing a regular bowel movement pattern can improve fecal incontinence, especially fecal incontinence due to constipation. Bowel training involves trying to have bowel movements at specific times of the day, such as after every meal. Over time, the body becomes used to a regular bowel movement pattern, thus reducing constipation and related fecal incontinence. Persistence is key to successful bowel training. Achieving a regular bowel control pattern can take weeks to months.
                
Pelvic Floor Exercises and Biofeedback
                
Exercises that strengthen the pelvic floor muscles may improve bowel control. Pelvic floor exercises involve squeezing and relaxing pelvic floor muscles 50 to 100 times a day. A health care provider can help with proper technique. Biofeedback therapy may also help a person perform the exercises properly. This therapy also improves a persons awareness of sensations in the rectum, teaching how to coordinate squeezing of the external sphincter muscle with the sensation of rectal filling. Biofeedback training uses special sensors to measure bodily functions. Sensors include pressure or EMG sensors in the anus, pressure sensors in the rectum, and a balloon in the rectum to produce graded sensations of rectal fullness. The measurements are displayed on a video screen as sounds or line graphs. The health care provider uses the information to help the person modify or change abnormal function. The person practices the exercises at home. Success with pelvic floor exercises depends on the cause of fecal incontinence, its severity, and the persons motivation and ability to follow the health care providers recommendations.
                
Surgery
                
Surgery may be an option for fecal incontinence that fails to improve with other treatments or for fecal incontinence caused by pelvic floor or anal sphincter muscle injuries.
                
- Sphincteroplasty, the most common fecal incontinence surgery, reconnects the separated ends of a sphincter muscle torn by childbirth or another injury. Sphincteroplasty is performed at a hospital by a colorectal, gynecological, or general surgeon.  - Artificial anal sphincter involves placing an inflatable cuff around the anus and implanting a small pump beneath the skin that the person activates to inflate or deflate the cuff. This surgery is much less common and is performed at a hospital by a specially trained colorectal surgeon.  - Nonabsorbable bulking agents can be injected into the wall of the anus to bulk up the tissue around the anus. The bulkier tissues make the opening of the anus narrower so the sphincters are able to close better. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office; anesthesia is not needed. The person can return to normal physical activities 1 week after the procedure.  - Bowel diversion is an operation that reroutes the normal movement of stool out of the body when part of the bowel is removed. The operation diverts the lower part of the small intestine or colon to an opening in the wall of the abdomenthe area between the chest and hips. An external pouch is attached to the opening to collect stool. The procedure is performed by a surgeon in a hospital and anesthesia is used. More information about these procedures can be found in the Bowel Diversion fact sheet.
                
Electrical Stimulation
                
Electrical stimulation, also called sacral nerve stimulation or neuromodulation, involves placing electrodes in the sacral nerves to the anus and rectum and continuously stimulating the nerves with electrical pulses. The sacral nerves connect to the part of the spine in the hip area. A battery-operated stimulator is placed beneath the skin. Based on the persons response, the health care provider can adjust the amount of stimulation so it works best for that person. The person can turn the stimulator on or off at any time. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center using local anesthesia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Blepharoptosis myopia ectopia lentis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Blepharoptosis myopia ectopia lentis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Blepharoptosis myopia ectopia lentis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Ectopia lentis 90% Glaucoma 90% Myopia 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Palpebral edema 50% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 7.5% Abnormality of the helix 7.5% Iris coloboma 7.5% Prominent occiput 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Congenital ptosis - Increased axial globe length - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency ?
Answer: Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) is a disorder that causes a deficiency or absence of the alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) protein in the blood. AAT is made in the liver and sent through the bloodstream to the lungs, to protect the lungs from damage. Having low levels of ATT (or no ATT) can allow the lungs to become damaged, making breathing hard. Age of onset and severity of AATD can vary based on how much ATT an affected person is missing. In adults, symptoms may include shortness of breath; reduced ability to exercise; wheezing; respiratory infections; fatigue; vision problems; and weight loss. Some people have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma. Liver disease (cirrhosis) may occur in affected children or adults. Rarely, AATD can cause a skin condition called panniculitis. AATD is caused by mutations in the SERPINA1 gene and is inherited in a codominant manner. Treatment is based on each person's symptoms and may include bronchodilators; antibiotics for upper respiratory tract infections; intravenous therapy of AAT; and/or lung transplantation in severe cases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) SCOT deficiency ?
Answer: SCOT deficiency is a metabolic disease that is caused by reduced or missing levels of 3-ketoacid CoA transferase. This enzyme is necessary for the body to use ketones. Ketones are substances produced when fat cells break down and are an important source of energy, especially when there is a shortage of glucose. SCOT deficiency is characterized by intermittent ketoacidosis, with the first episode often occurring in newborns or infants (6 to 20 months). In ketoacidosis ketones build-up in the body. Symptoms of ketoacidosis may vary but can include trouble breathing, poor feeding, vomiting, lethargy, unconsciousness, and coma. Crises need to be addressed immediately. Fortunately these crises tend to respond well to IV fluids including glucose and sodium bicarbonate. Patients with SCOT defiency are symptom free between episodes. This deficiency can be caused by mutations in the OXCT1 gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome (PHTS)  - Genetic Testing Registry: Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome  - University of Iowa: Bannayan-Ruvalcaba-Riley Syndrome (BRRS): A Guide for Patients and Their Families   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Approximately 350 people with succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency have been reported worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by juvenile hyaline fibromatosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of juvenile hyaline fibromatosis is unknown. About 70 people with this disorder have been reported.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for cryptogenic cirrhosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of cryptogenic cirrhosis:  - Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh: Cirrhosis  - Cleveland Clinic: Cirrhosis of the Liver  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cirrhosis, cryptogenic  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial cirrhosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Cirrhosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by tyrosinemia ?
Answer: Worldwide, tyrosinemia type I affects about 1 in 100,000 individuals. This type is more common in Norway where 1 in 60,000 to 74,000 individuals are affected. Tyrosinemia type I is even more common in Quebec, Canada where it occurs in about 1 in 16,000 individuals. In the Saguenay-Lac St. Jean region of Quebec, tyrosinemia type I affects 1 in 1,846 people.  Tyrosinemia type II occurs in fewer than 1 in 250,000 individuals worldwide. Tyrosinemia type III is very rare; only a few cases have been reported.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Trichotillomania ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Trichotillomania? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Trichotillomania. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Alopecia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hair-pulling - Multifactorial inheritance - Obsessive-compulsive behavior - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for junctional epidermolysis bullosa ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of junctional epidermolysis bullosa:  - Epidermolysis Bullosa Center, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Junctional Epidermolysis Bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Adult junctional epidermolysis bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epidermolysis bullosa, junctional  - Genetic Testing Registry: Junctional epidermolysis bullosa gravis of Herlitz  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Epidermolysis Bullosa   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Nutrition
Answer: Summary : Food provides the energy and nutrients you need to be healthy. Nutrients include proteins, carbohydrates, fats, vitamins, minerals, and water.     Healthy eating is not hard. The key is to       -  Eat a variety of foods, including vegetables, fruits, and whole-grain products    -  Eat lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, and low-fat dairy products     -  Drink lots of water    -  Limit salt, sugar, alcohol, saturated fat, and trans fat in your diet       Saturated fats are usually fats that come from animals. Look for trans fat on the labels of processed foods, margarines, and shortenings.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the complications of Polycystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Babies with the most severe cases of autosomal recessive PKD often die hours or days after birth because they cannot breathe well enough to sustain life. Their lungs do not develop as they should during the prenatal period. Pressure from enlarged kidneys also contributes to breathing problems.
                
Children born with autosomal recessive PKD often develop kidney failure before reaching adulthood.
                
Liver scarring occurs in all people with autosomal recessive PKD and is usually present at birth. However, liver problems tend to become more of a concern as people with autosomal recessive PKD grow older. Liver scarring can lead to progressive liver dysfunction and other problems.
                
Additional complications of autosomal recessive PKD include high blood pressure and UTIs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) thrombocytopenia-absent radius syndrome ?
Answer: Thrombocytopenia-absent radius (TAR) syndrome is characterized by the absence of a bone called the radius in each forearm. Affected individuals also have a shortage (deficiency) of blood cells involved in clotting (platelets). This platelet deficiency (thrombocytopenia) usually appears during infancy and becomes less severe over time; in some cases the platelet levels become normal.  Thrombocytopenia prevents normal blood clotting, resulting in easy bruising and frequent nosebleeds. Potentially life-threatening episodes of severe bleeding (hemorrhages) may occur in the brain and other organs, especially during the first year of life. Hemorrhages can damage the brain and lead to intellectual disability. Affected children who survive this period and do not have damaging hemorrhages in the brain usually have a normal life expectancy and normal intellectual development.  TAR syndrome is unusual among similar malformations in that affected individuals have thumbs, while people with other conditions involving an absent radius typically do not. TAR syndrome is also associated with short stature and additional skeletal abnormalities, including underdevelopment of other bones in the arms and legs. Affected individuals may also have malformations of the heart and kidneys. TAR syndrome is associated with unusual facial features including a small lower jaw (micrognathia), a prominent forehead, and low-set ears. About half of affected individuals have allergic reactions to cow's milk that may worsen the thrombocytopenia associated with this disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter inherited ?
Answer: How is leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter inherited? Leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene to be affected. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ?
Answer: The genetics of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy are complex and not completely understood. Mutations in one of several genes can cause or increase susceptibility to this condition. The most studied of these genes are the GABRA1 gene and the EFHC1 gene, although mutations in at least three other genes have been identified in people with this condition. Many people with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy do not have mutations in any of these genes. Changes in other, unidentified genes are likely involved in this condition.  A mutation in the GABRA1 gene has been identified in several members of a large family with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. The GABRA1 gene provides instructions for making one piece, the alpha-1 (1) subunit, of the GABAA receptor protein. The GABAA receptor acts as a channel that allows negatively charged chlorine atoms (chloride ions) to cross the cell membrane. After infancy, the influx of chloride ions creates an environment in the cell that inhibits signaling between nerve cells (neurons) and prevents the brain from being overloaded with too many signals. Mutations in the GABRA1 gene lead to an altered 1 subunit and a decrease in the number of GABAA receptors available. As a result, the signaling between neurons is not controlled, which can lead to overstimulation of neurons. Researchers believe that the overstimulation of certain neurons in the brain triggers the abnormal brain activity associated with seizures.  Mutations in the EFHC1 gene have been associated with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy in a small number of people. The EFHC1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that also plays a role in neuron activity, although its function is not completely understood. The EFHC1 protein is attached to another protein that acts as a calcium channel. This protein allows positively charged calcium ions to cross the cell membrane. The movement of these ions is critical for normal signaling between neurons. The EFHC1 protein is thought to help regulate the balance of calcium ions inside the cell, although the mechanism is unclear. In addition, studies show that the EFHC1 protein may be involved in the self-destruction of cells. EFHC1 gene mutations reduce the function of the EFHC1 protein. Researchers suggest that this reduction causes an increase in the number of neurons and disrupts the calcium balance. Together, these effects may lead to overstimulation of neurons and trigger seizures.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Familial joint instability syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Familial joint instability syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial joint instability syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Patellar dislocation 90% Abnormality of the elbow 7.5% Abnormality of the femur 7.5% Abnormality of the shoulder 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Congenital hip dislocation - Joint laxity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Pfeiffer syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Pfeiffer syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: FGFR-Related Craniosynostosis Syndromes  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pfeiffer syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Craniosynostosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Webbing of fingers or toes   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Rural Health Concerns
Answer: Summary : People in rural areas face some different health issues than people who live in towns and cities. Getting health care can be a problem when you live in a remote area. You might not be able to get to a hospital quickly in an emergency. You also might not want to travel long distances to get routine checkups and screenings. Rural areas often have fewer doctors and dentists, and certain specialists might not be available at all.     Because it can be hard to get care, health problems in rural residents may be more serious by the time they are diagnosed. People in rural areas of the United States have higher rates of chronic disease than people in urban areas. They also have higher rates of certain types of cancer, from exposure to chemicals used in farming.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital corneal dystrophy - Opacification of the corneal stroma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is the outlook for Mucolipidoses ?
Answer: Symptoms of ML can be congenital (present at birth) or begin in early childhood or adolescence. Early symptoms can include skeletal abnormalities, vision problems and developmental delays. Over time, many children with ML develop poor mental capacities, have difficulty reaching normal developmental milestones, and, in many cases, eventually die of the disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with non-small cell lung cancer.    - Nine types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery      - Radiation therapy      - Chemotherapy      - Targeted therapy     - Laser therapy     - Photodynamic therapy (PDT)     - Cryosurgery     - Electrocautery     - Watchful waiting        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.          - Chemoprevention     - Radiosensitizers     - New combinations        - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
                    Different types of treatments are available for patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Nine types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery     Four types of surgery are used to treat lung cancer:            -  Wedge resection: Surgery to remove a tumor and some of the normal tissue around it. When a slightly larger amount of tissue is taken, it is called a segmental resection.     -  Lobectomy: Surgery to remove a whole lobe (section) of the lung.     -  Pneumonectomy: Surgery to remove one whole lung.     -  Sleeve resection: Surgery to remove part of the bronchus.           Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, some patients may be given chemotherapy or radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.             Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy. Special equipment is used to place the patient in the same position for each radiation treatment. Once a day for several days, a radiation machine aims a larger than usual dose of radiation directly at the tumor. By having the patient in the same position for each treatment, there is less damage to nearby healthy tissue. This procedure is also called stereotactic external-beam radiation therapy and stereotaxic radiation therapy.     Stereotactic radiosurgery is a type of external radiation therapy used to treat lung cancer that has spread to the brain. A rigid head frame is attached to the skull to keep the head still during the radiation treatment. A machine aims a single large dose of radiation directly at the tumor in the brain. This procedure does not involve surgery. It is also called stereotaxic radiosurgery, radiosurgery, and radiation surgery.    For tumors in the airways, radiation is given directly to the tumor through an endoscope.     The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. It also depends on where the cancer is found. External and internal radiation therapy are used to treat non-small cell lung cancer.       Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy).     The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    See Drugs Approved for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer for more information.       Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack specific cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do. Monoclonal antibodies and tyrosine kinase inhibitors are the two main types of targeted therapy being used to treat advanced, metastatic, or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer.     Monoclonal antibodies     Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances in the blood or tissues that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells.    There are different types of monoclonal antibody therapy:            -  Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor therapy: Cancer cells make a substance called VEGF, which causes new blood vessels to form (angiogenesis) and helps the cancer grow. VEGF inhibitors block VEGF and stop new blood vessels from forming. This may kill cancer cells because they need new blood vessels to grow. Bevacizumab and ramucirumab are VEGF inhibitors and angiogenesis inhibitors.     -  Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor therapy: EGFRs are proteins found on the surface of certain cells, including cancer cells. Epidermal growth factor attaches to the EGFR on the surface of the cell and causes the cells to grow and divide. EGFR inhibitors block the receptor and stop the epidermal growth factor from attaching to the cancer cell. This stops the cancer cell from growing and dividing. Cetuximab and necitumumab are EGFR inhibitors.     -  Immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy: PD-1 is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When PD-1 attaches to another protein called PDL-1 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. PD-1 inhibitors attach to PDL-1 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab are types of immune checkpoint inhibitors.            Tyrosine kinase inhibitors     Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are small-molecule drugs that go through the cell membrane and work inside cancer cells to block signals that cancer cells need to grow and divide. Some tyrosine kinase inhibitors also have angiogenesis inhibitor effects.    There are different types of tyrosine kinase inhibitors:            -  Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors: EGFRs are proteins found on the surface and inside certain cells, including cancer cells. Epidermal growth factor attaches to the EGFR inside the cell and sends signals to the tyrosine kinase area of the cell, which tells the cell to grow and divide. EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors stop these signals and stop the cancer cell from growing and dividing. Erlotinib, gefitinib, and afatinib are types of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Some of these drugs work better when there is also a mutation (change) in the EGFR gene.     -  Kinase inhibitors that affect cells with certain gene changes: Certain changes in the ALK  and ROS1 genes cause too much protein to be made. Blocking these proteins may stop the cancer from growing and spreading. Crizotinib is used to stop proteins from being made by the ALK and ROS1 gene. Ceritinib is used to stop proteins from being made by the ALK gene.           See Drugs Approved for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer for more information.       Laser therapy     Laser therapy is a cancer treatment that uses a laser beam (a narrow beam of intense light) to kill cancer cells.       Photodynamic therapy (PDT)     Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a cancer treatment that uses a drug and a certain type of laser light to kill cancer cells. A drug that is not active until it is exposed to light is injected into a vein. The drug collects more in cancer cells than in normal cells. Fiberoptic tubes are then used to carry the laser light to the cancer cells, where the drug becomes active and kills the cells. Photodynamic therapy causes little damage to healthy tissue. It is used mainly to treat tumors on or just under the skin or in the lining of internal organs. When the tumor is in the airways, PDT is given directly to the tumor through an endoscope.       Cryosurgery     Cryosurgery is a treatment that uses an instrument to freeze and destroy abnormal tissue, such as carcinoma in situ. This type of treatment is also called cryotherapy. For tumors in the airways, cryosurgery is done through an endoscope.       Electrocautery    Electrocautery is a treatment that uses a probe or needle heated by an electric current to destroy abnormal tissue. For tumors in the airways, electrocautery is done through an endoscope.       Watchful waiting     Watchful waiting is closely monitoring a patients condition without giving any treatment until signs or symptoms appear or change. This may be done in certain rare cases of non-small cell lung cancer.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chemoprevention     Chemoprevention is the use of drugs, vitamins, or other substances to reduce the risk of cancer or to reduce the risk cancer will recur (come back). For lung cancer, chemoprevention is used to lessen the chance that a new tumor will form in the lung.       Radiosensitizers     Radiosensitizers are substances that make tumor cells easier to kill with radiation therapy. The combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy given with a radiosensitizer is being studied in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.       New combinations    New combinations of treatments are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options by Stage
		            
		                
		                    Occult Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
		                    Treatment of occult non-small cell lung cancer depends on the stage of the disease. Occult tumors are often found at an early stage (the tumor is in the lung only) and sometimes can be cured by surgery.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with occult non-small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage 0 (Carcinoma in Situ)
		                    Treatment of stage 0 may include the following:         -  Surgery (wedge resection or segmental resection).     -  Photodynamic therapy for tumors in or near the bronchus.     - Electrocautery, cryosurgery, or laser surgery for tumors in or near the bronchus.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage 0 non-small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage I Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage I non-small cell lung cancer may include the following:         -  Surgery (wedge resection, segmental resection, sleeve resection, or lobectomy).    -  External radiation therapy, including stereotactic body radiation therapy for patients who cannot have surgery or choose not to have surgery.     - A clinical trial of chemotherapy or radiation therapy following surgery.     - A clinical trial of treatment given through an endoscope, such as photodynamic therapy (PDT).     - A clinical trial of surgery followed by chemoprevention.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage II Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage II non-small cell lung cancer may include the following:         -  Surgery (wedge resection, segmental resection, sleeve resection, lobectomy, or pneumonectomy).    -  Chemotherapy followed by surgery.    - Surgery followed by chemotherapy.    -  External radiation therapy for patients who cannot have surgery.     - A clinical trial of radiation therapy following surgery.         Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage II non-small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer that can be removed with surgery may include the following:         - Surgery followed by chemotherapy.    - Surgery followed by radiation therapy.    - Chemotherapy followed by surgery.    - Surgery followed by chemotherapy combined with radiation therapy.     - Chemotherapy and radiation therapy followed by surgery.    - A clinical trial of new combinations of treatments.        Treatment of stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be removed with surgery may include the following:         - Chemotherapy and radiation therapy given over the same period of time or one followed by the other.    -  External radiation therapy alone for patients who cannot be treated with combined therapy, or as palliative treatment to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life.    -  Internal radiation therapy or laser surgery, as palliative treatment to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life.     - A clinical trial of new combinations of treatments.        For more information about supportive care for signs and symptoms including cough, shortness of breath, and chest pain, see the PDQ summary on Cardiopulmonary Syndromes.    Non-small cell lung cancer of the superior sulcus, often called Pancoast tumor, begins in the upper part of the lung and spreads to nearby tissues such as the chest wall, large blood vessels, and spine. Treatment of Pancoast tumors may include the following:         - Radiation therapy alone.    - Radiation therapy followed by surgery.    - Chemotherapy and radiation therapy given as separate treatments over the same period of time. Surgery may also be done after chemotherapy and radiation therapy.    - Surgery alone.    - A clinical trial of new combinations of treatments.        Some stage IIIA non-small cell lung tumors that have grown into the chest wall may be completely removed. Treatment of chest wall tumors may include the following:         - Surgery.    - Surgery and radiation therapy.    - Radiation therapy alone.    - Chemotherapy combined with radiation therapy and/or surgery.    - A clinical trial of new combinations of treatments.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage IIIB non-small cell lung cancer may include the following:         -  Chemotherapy followed by external radiation therapy.    - Chemotherapy and radiation therapy given as separate treatments over the same period of time.    - Chemotherapy followed by surgery.    - External radiation therapy alone for patients who cannot be treated with chemotherapy.    - External radiation therapy as palliative therapy, to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life.    -  Laser therapy and/or internal radiation therapy to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life.    -  Clinical trials of new external radiation therapy schedules and new types of treatment.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy and radiation therapy combined with a radiosensitizer.     - Clinical trials of targeted therapy combined with chemotherapy and radiation therapy.        For more information about supportive care for signs and symptoms such as cough, shortness of breath, and chest pain, see the following PDQ summaries:         -  Cardiopulmonary Syndromes     -  Cancer Pain         Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage IV non-small cell lung cancer may include the following:         -  Chemotherapy.    - Chemotherapy followed by more chemotherapy as maintenance therapy to help keep cancer from progressing.    - Combination chemotherapy and targeted therapy with a monoclonal antibody, such as bevacizumab, cetuximab, or necitumumab.    - Targeted therapy with a monoclonal antibody, such as nivolumab, pembrolizumab, or atezolizumab.    - Targeted therapy with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, such as erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib, crizotinib, or ceritinib.    -  External radiation therapy as palliative therapy, to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life.    -  Laser therapy and/or internal radiation therapy for tumors that are blocking the airways.    - A clinical trial of new drugs and combinations of treatments.        For more information about supportive care for signs and symptoms including cough, shortness of breath, and chest pain, see the following PDQ summaries:         -  Cardiopulmonary Syndromes     -  Cancer Pain     -  Last Days of Life         Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Angelman syndrome ?
Answer: Angelman syndrome is a genetic disorder that primarily affects the nervous system. Characteristic features of this condition include developmental delay, intellectual disability, severe speech impairment, problems with movement and balance (ataxia), epilepsy, and a small head size. Individuals with Angelman syndrome typically have a happy, excitable demeanor with frequent smiling, laughter, and hand-flapping movements. Many of the characteristic features of Angelman syndrome result from the loss of function of a gene called UBE3A. Most cases of Angelman syndrome are not inherited, although in rare cases a genetic change responsible for Angelman syndrome can be inherited from a parent. Treatment is aimed at addressing each individual's symptoms and may include antiepileptics for seizures; physical, occupational, and speech therapy; and special education services.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Binswanger's Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to BD in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure neurological disorders, such as BD.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Smith-Magenis syndrome ?
Answer: Most people with Smith-Magenis syndrome have a deletion of genetic material from a specific region of chromosome 17. Although this region contains multiple genes, researchers believe that the loss of one particular gene, RAI1, in each cell is responsible for most of the characteristic features of this condition. The loss of other genes in the deleted region may help explain why the features of Smith-Magenis syndrome vary among affected individuals.  A small percentage of people with Smith-Magenis syndrome have a mutation in the RAI1 gene instead of a chromosomal deletion. Although these individuals have many of the major features of the condition, they are less likely than people with a chromosomal deletion to have short stature, hearing loss, and heart or kidney abnormalities.  The RAI1 gene provides instructions for making a protein whose function is unknown. Mutations in one copy of this gene lead to the production of a nonfunctional version of the RAI1 protein or reduce the amount of this protein that is produced in cells. Researchers are uncertain how changes in this protein result in the physical, mental, and behavioral problems associated with Smith-Magenis syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer ?
Answer: Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:         - The stage of the cancer (the size of the tumor and whether it is in the lung only or has spread to other places in the body).    - The type of lung cancer.    - Whether the cancer has mutations (changes) in certain genes, such as the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene or the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene.    - Whether there are signs and symptoms such as coughing or trouble breathing.    - The patients general health.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by proopiomelanocortin deficiency ?
Answer: POMC deficiency is a rare condition; approximately 50 cases have been reported in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Wolfram syndrome ?
Answer: How is Wolfram syndrome diagnosed? A diagnosis of Wolfram syndrome is based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. The identification of a change (mutation) in the WFS1 gene or CISD2 gene confirms the diagnosis. Is genetic testing available for Wolfram syndrome? Yes. Clinical genetic testing is available for changes (mutations) in WFS1 and CISD2, the two genes known to cause Wolfram syndrome type 1 and Wolfram syndrome type 2, respectively. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal testing are possible if the two disease-causing mutations in the family are known. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) is a centralized online resource for information about genetic tests. It offers information on genetic testing for Wolfram syndrome type 1 and Wolfram syndrome type 2. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the Young ?
Answer: MODY is a monogenic form of diabetes that usually first occurs during adolescence or early adulthood. However, MODY sometimes remains undiagnosed until later in life. A number of different gene mutations have been shown to cause MODY, all of which limit the ability of the pancreas to produce insulin. This process leads to the high blood glucose levels characteristic of diabetes and, in time, may damage body tissues, particularly the eyes, kidneys, nerves, and blood vessels. MODY accounts for about 1 to 5 percent of all cases of diabetes in the United States. Family members of people with MODY are at greatly increased risk for the condition.
                
People with MODY may have only mild or no symptoms of diabetes and their hyperglycemia may only be discovered during routine blood tests. MODY may be confused with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. People with MODY are generally not overweight and do not have other risk factors for type 2 diabetes, such as high blood pressure or abnormal blood fat levels. While both type 2 diabetes and MODY can run in families, people with MODY typically have a family history of diabetes in multiple successive generations, meaning that MODY is present in a grandparent, a parent, and a child. Unlike people with type 1 diabetes who always require insulin, people with MODY can often be treated with oral diabetes medications. Treatment varies depending on the genetic mutation that has caused the MODY. More information about each type of MODY is provided in the appendix.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Do you have information about Prenatal Testing
Answer: Summary : Prenatal testing provides information about your baby's health before he or she is born. Some routine tests during pregnancy also check on your health. At your first prenatal visit, your healthcare provider will test for a number of things, including problems with your blood, signs of infections, and whether you are immune to rubella (German measles) and chickenpox.    Throughout your pregnancy, your healthcare provider may suggest a number of other tests, too. Some tests are suggested for all women, such as screenings for gestational diabetes, Down syndrome, and HIV. Other tests might be offered based on your:       - Age    - Personal or family health history    - Ethnic background    - Results of routine tests       Some tests are screening tests. They detect risks for or signs of possible health problems in you or your baby. Based on screening test results, your doctor might suggest diagnostic tests. Diagnostic tests confirm or rule out health problems in you or your baby.     Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of MORM syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of MORM syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for MORM syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cataract - Childhood-onset truncal obesity - Delayed speech and language development - Intellectual disability, moderate - Micropenis - Retinal dystrophy - Truncal obesity - Visual impairment - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Cockayne syndrome ?
Answer: Cockayne syndrome occurs in about 2 per million newborns in the United States and Europe.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Arginase deficiency ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Arginase deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Arginase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aminoaciduria 90% Behavioral abnormality 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% EEG abnormality 50% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 50% Hyperammonemia 50% Seizures 50% Anorexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Diaminoaciduria - Hyperactivity - Intellectual disability - Irritability - Oroticaciduria - Postnatal growth retardation - Progressive spastic quadriplegia - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with adult ALL.     - The treatment of adult ALL usually has two phases.    - Four types of standard treatment are used:          - Chemotherapy      - Radiation therapy      - Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     - Targeted therapy         - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.          - Biologic therapy        - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Patients with ALL may have late effects after treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with adult ALL.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    The treatment of adult ALL usually has two phases.
                    The treatment of adult ALL is done in phases:         -  Remission induction therapy: This is the first phase of treatment. The goal is to kill the leukemia cells in the blood and bone marrow. This puts the leukemia into remission.    -  Post-remission therapy: This is the second phase of treatment. It begins once the leukemia is in remission. The goal of post-remission therapy is to kill any remaining leukemia cells that may not be active but could begin to regrow and cause a relapse. This phase is also called remission continuation therapy.        Treatment called central nervous system (CNS) sanctuary therapy is usually given during each phase of therapy. Because standard doses of chemotherapy may not reach leukemia cells in the CNS (brain and spinal cord), the cells are able to "find sanctuary" (hide) in the CNS. Systemic chemotherapy given in high doses, intrathecal chemotherapy, and radiation therapy to the brain are able to reach leukemia cells in the CNS. They are given to kill the leukemia cells and lessen the chance the leukemia will recur (come back). CNS sanctuary therapy is also called CNS prophylaxis.
                
                
                    Four types of standard treatment are used:
                    Chemotherapy      Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid (intrathecal chemotherapy), an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Combination chemotherapy is treatment using more than one anticancer drug. The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    Intrathecal chemotherapy may be used to treat adult ALL that has spread, or may spread, to the brain and spinal cord. When used to lessen the chance leukemia cells will spread to the brain and spinal cord, it is called central nervous system (CNS) sanctuary therapy or CNS prophylaxis.        See Drugs Approved for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia for more information.       Radiation therapy      Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.      -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of cancer. External radiation therapy may be used to treat adult ALL that has spread, or may spread, to the brain and spinal cord. When used this way, it is called central nervous system (CNS) sanctuary therapy or CNS prophylaxis. External radiation therapy may also be used as palliative therapy to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life.       Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     Stem cell transplant is a method of giving chemotherapy and replacing blood-forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.    See Drugs Approved for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia for more information.        Targeted therapy      Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells.    Targeted therapy drugs called tyrosine kinase inhibitors are used to treat some types of adult ALL. These drugs block the enzyme, tyrosine kinase, that causes stem cells to develop into more white blood cells (blasts) than the body needs. Three of the drugs used are imatinib mesylate (Gleevec), dasatinib, and nilotinib.    See Drugs Approved for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia for more information.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Patients with ALL may have late effects after treatment.
                    Side effects from cancer treatment that begin during or after treatment and continue for months or years are called late effects. Late effects of treatment for ALL may include the risk of second cancers (new types of cancer). Regular follow-up exams are very important for long-term survivors.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                                
                        
														            Treatment Options for Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
														            
														                
														                    Untreated Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
														                    Standard treatment of adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) during the remission induction phase includes the following:         -  Combination chemotherapy.    -  Tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy with imatinib mesylate, in certain patients. Some of these patients will also have combination chemotherapy.    -  Supportive care including antibiotics and red blood cell and platelet transfusions.    -  CNS prophylaxis therapy including chemotherapy (intrathecal and/or systemic) with or without radiation therapy to the brain.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with untreated adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
														                
														                
														                    Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission
														                    Standard treatment of adult ALL during the post-remission phase includes the following:          -  Chemotherapy.    -  Tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy.    -  Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant.    -  CNS prophylaxis  therapy including chemotherapy (intrathecal and/or systemic) with or without radiation therapy to the brain.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia in remission. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
														                
														                
														                    Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
														                    Standard treatment of recurrent adult ALL may include the following:         -  Combination chemotherapy followed by stem cell transplant.     - Low-dose radiation therapy as palliative care to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life.    -  Tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy with dasatinib for certain patients.        Some of the treatments being studied in clinical trials for recurrent adult ALL include the following:         - A clinical trial of stem cell transplant using the patient's stem cells.    - A clinical trial of biologic therapy.    - A clinical trial of new anticancer drugs.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Problems with Smell ?
Answer: The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) supports basic and clinical investigations of smell and taste disorders at its laboratories in Bethesda, Md. and at universities and chemosensory research centers across the country. These chemosensory scientists are exploring how to - promote the regeneration of sensory nerve cells   - understand the effects of the environment (such as gasoline fumes, chemicals, and extremes of humidity and temperature) on smell and taste  - prevent the effects of aging on smell and taste   - develop new diagnostic tests for taste and smell disorders   - understand associations between smell disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses.  promote the regeneration of sensory nerve cells understand the effects of the environment (such as gasoline fumes, chemicals, and extremes of humidity and temperature) on smell and taste prevent the effects of aging on smell and taste develop new diagnostic tests for taste and smell disorders understand associations between smell disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is Hypophosphatemic rickets inherited ?
Answer: How is hypophosphatemic rickets inherited? Hypophosphatemic rickets is most often inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. This means that the gene responsible for the condition is located on the X chromosome, and having only one mutated copy of the gene is enough to cause the condition. Because males have only one X chromosome (and one Y chromosome) and females have two X chromosomes, X-linked dominant conditions affect males and females differently. Both males and females can have an X-linked dominant condition. However, because males don't have a second, working copy of the gene (as females do), they usually have more severe disease than females. If a father has the mutated X-linked gene: all of his daughters will inherit the mutated gene (they will all receive his X chromosome) none of his sons will inherit the mutated gene (they only inherit his Y chromosome) If a mother has the mutated X-linked gene, each of her children (both male and female) has a 50% chance to inherit the mutated gene. Less commonly, hypophosphatemic rickets is inherited in an X-linked recessive, autosomal dominant, or autosomal recessive manner.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Brown syndrome ?
Answer: Brown syndrome is an eye disorder characterized by abnormalities in the eye's ability to move. Specifically, the ability to look up and in is affected by a problem in the superior oblique muscle/tendon. The condition may be present at birth (congenital) or it may develop following surgery or as a result of inflammation or a problem with development. Some cases are constant while other are intermittent. Treatment depends upon the cause and severity of the movement disorder. Options include close observation, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents like Ibuprofen, corticosteroids, and surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is isolated Duane retraction syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Isolated Duane retraction syndrome usually occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. These cases are described as simplex, and their genetic cause is unknown.  Less commonly, isolated Duane retraction syndrome can run in families. Familial cases most often have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. When isolated Duane retraction syndrome is caused by CHN1 mutations, it has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern.  In a few families with isolated Duane retraction syndrome, the pattern of affected family members suggests autosomal recessive inheritance. In these families, one or more children are affected, although the parents typically have no signs or symptoms of the condition. The parents of children with an autosomal recessive condition are called carriers, which means they carry one mutated copy of a gene in each cell. In affected children, both copies of the gene in each cell are mutated. However, researchers have not discovered the gene or genes responsible for autosomal recessive isolated Duane retraction syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) X-linked sideroblastic anemia ?
Answer: X-linked sideroblastic anemia is an inherited disorder that prevents developing red blood cells (erythroblasts) from making enough hemoglobin, which is the protein that carries oxygen in the blood. People with X-linked sideroblastic anemia have mature red blood cells that are smaller than normal (microcytic) and appear pale (hypochromic) because of the shortage of hemoglobin. This disorder also leads to an abnormal accumulation of iron in red blood cells. The iron-loaded erythroblasts, which are present in bone marrow, are called ring sideroblasts. These abnormal cells give the condition its name.  The signs and symptoms of X-linked sideroblastic anemia result from a combination of reduced hemoglobin and an overload of iron. They range from mild to severe and most often appear in young adulthood. Common features include fatigue, dizziness, a rapid heartbeat, pale skin, and an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly). Over time, severe medical problems such as heart disease and liver damage (cirrhosis) can result from the buildup of excess iron in these organs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Barth Syndrome ?
Answer: Barth syndrome (BTHS) is a rare, genetic disorder of lipid metabolism that primarily affects males. It is caused by a mutation in the tafazzin gene (TAZ, also called G4.5) which leads to decreased production of an enzyme required to produce cardiolipin. Cardiolipin is an essential lipid that is important in energy metabolism. BTHS, which affects multiple body systems, is considered serious. Its main characteristics often include combinations in varying degrees of heart muscle weakness (cardiomyopathy), neutropenia (low white blood cell cunt, which may lead to an increased risk for bacterial infections), reduced muscle tone (hypotonia), muscle weakness, undeveloped skeletal muscles, delayed growth, fatigue, varying degrees of physical disability, and methylglutaconic aciduria (an increase in an organic acid that results in abnormal mitochondria function). Although some with BTHS may have all of these characteristics, others may have only one or two and are often misdiagnosed. BTHS is an X-linked genetic condition passed from mother to son through the X chromosome. A mother who is a carrier of BTHS typically shows no signs or symptoms of the disorder herself. On average, 50 percent of children born to a carrier mother will inherit the defective gene, but only boys will develop symptoms. All daughters born to an affected male will be carriers but typically will not have symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is Wolfram syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Wolfram syndrome inherited? Wolfram syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of X-linked dominant scapuloperoneal myopathy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of X-linked dominant scapuloperoneal myopathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for X-linked dominant scapuloperoneal myopathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adult onset - Arrhythmia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - EMG: myopathic abnormalities - Flexion contracture - Foot dorsiflexor weakness - Hyporeflexia - Lower limb muscle weakness - Myofibrillar myopathy - Scapular winging - Scapuloperoneal myopathy - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Slow progression - Steppage gait - Waddling gait - Weakness of facial musculature - X-linked dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Nystagmus 5% Abnormality of extrapyramidal motor function - Alopecia - Arteriosclerosis of small cerebral arteries - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Dementia - Diffuse demyelination of the cerebral white matter - Diffuse white matter abnormalities - Dysarthria - Gait disturbance - Hyperreflexia - Low back pain - Progressive encephalopathy - Pseudobulbar signs - Rigidity - Spasticity - Urinary incontinence - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is alkaptonuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Griscelli syndrome type 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Griscelli syndrome type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Griscelli syndrome type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Generalized hypopigmentation 90% Ocular albinism 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Heterogeneous - Large clumps of pigment irregularly distributed along hair shaft - Silver-gray hair - White eyelashes - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Urinalysis
Answer: Summary : A urinalysis is a test of your urine. It is often done to check for a urinary tract infections, kidney problems, or diabetes. You may also have one during a checkup, if you are admitted to the hospital, before you have surgery, or if you are pregnant. It can also monitor some medical conditions and treatments.    A urinalysis involves checking the urine for       - Its color    - Its appearance (whether it is clear or cloudy)    - Any odor    - The pH level (acidity)    - Whether there are substances that are not normally in urine, such as blood, too much protein, glucose, ketones, and bilirubin    - Whether there are cells, crystals, and casts (tube-shaped proteins)    - Whether it contains bacteria or other germs
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Sialadenitis ?
Answer: How might sialadenitis be treated? The initial treatment for sialadenitis is antibiotics active against S. aureus. Hydration, ingesting things that trigger saliva flow (such as lemon juice or hard candy), warm compresses, gland massage, and good oral hygiene are also important. Abscesses need to be drained. Occasionally, in cases of chronic or relapsing sialadenitis, a superficial parotidectomy or submandibular gland excision is needed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Retroperitoneal fibrosis ?
Answer: Retroperitoneal fibrosis is a slowly progressive disorder in which the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder (ureters) and other abdominal organs are blocked by a fibrous mass and inflammation in the back of the abdomen. The disorder may cause chronic unilateral obstructive uropathy or chronic bilateral obstructive uropathy. Risk factors for retroperitoneal fibrosis include asbestos exposure, smoking, tumor, infection, trauma, radiotherapy, surgery, and use of certain drugs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Syngnathia multiple anomalies ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Syngnathia multiple anomalies? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Syngnathia multiple anomalies. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the teeth 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 90% Choanal atresia 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Facial palsy 90% Iris coloboma 90% Microcephaly 90% Narrow mouth 90% Nystagmus 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Sacrococcygeal pilonidal abnormality 90% Short stature 90% Trismus 90% Vertebral segmentation defect 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: - Alagille syndrome is a genetic condition that results in various symptoms in different parts of the body, including the liver.  - A person with Alagille syndrome has fewer than the normal number of small bile ducts inside the liver.  - In people with Alagille syndrome, the decreased number of bile ducts causes bile to build up in the liver, a condition also called cholestasis, leading to liver damage and liver disease.  - Alagille syndrome is caused by a gene mutation, or defect. Approximately 30 to 50 percent of people with Alagille syndrome have an inherited gene mutation, meaning it has been passed on by a parent.  - Alagille syndrome occurs in about one of every 30,000 live births. The disorder affects both sexes equally and shows no geographical, racial, or ethnic preferences.  - The gene mutations that cause Alagille syndrome may cause mild or subtle symptoms. Some people may not know they are affected.  - The signs and symptoms of Alagille syndrome and their severity vary, even among people in the same family sharing the same gene mutation.  - In some people, problems in the liver may be the first signs and symptoms of the disorder.  - The complications of Alagille syndrome include liver failure, portal hypertension, and growth problems.  - Ten to 30 percent of people with Alagille syndrome will eventually need a liver transplant.  - A health care provider diagnoses Alagille syndrome by performing a thorough physical exam and other tests.  - Genetic counseling can help family members understand how genetic test results may affect them individually and as a family.  - Treatment for Alagille syndrome includes medications and therapies that increase the flow of bile from the liver, promote growth and development in infants' and children's bodies, correct nutritional deficiencies, and reduce the person's discomfort.  - Scientists have not yet found a way to prevent Alagille syndrome.  - Caregivers and parents of children with Alagille syndrome should try to maximize their children's potential for growth through good eating, diet, and nutrition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Familial hyperlipo-proteinemia type 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Familial hyperlipo-proteinemia type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial hyperlipo-proteinemia type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Episodic abdominal pain - Eruptive xanthomas - Hepatosplenomegaly - Hypercholesterolemia - Hyperchylomicronemia - Hyperlipidemia - Jaundice - Lipemia retinalis - Nausea - Pancreatitis - Splenomegaly - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to primary sclerosing cholangitis ?
Answer: Primary sclerosing cholangitis is thought to arise from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Researchers believe that genetic changes play a role in this condition because it often occurs in several members of a family and because immediate family members of someone with primary sclerosing cholangitis have an increased risk of developing the condition. It is likely that specific genetic variations increase a person's risk of developing primary sclerosing cholangitis, and then exposure to certain environmental factors triggers the disorder. However, the genetic changes that increase susceptibility and the environmental triggers remain unclear.  There is evidence that variations in certain genes involved in immune function influence the risk of developing primary sclerosing cholangitis. The most commonly associated genes belong to a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The HLA complex helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). Each HLA gene has many different normal variations, allowing each person's immune system to react to a wide range of foreign proteins. Specific variations of several HLA genes seem to be present more often in people with primary sclerosing cholangitis than in people who do not have the disorder. These variations may dysregulate the body's immune response, leading to the inflammation of the bile ducts in people with primary sclerosing cholangitis. However, the mechanism is not well understood. Researchers are also studying variations in other genes related to the body's immune function to understand how they contribute to the risk of developing this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Birdshot chorioretinopathy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Birdshot chorioretinopathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Birdshot chorioretinopathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Chorioretinal abnormality - Posterior uveitis - Retinal pigment epithelial atrophy - Visual impairment - Vitritis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for mucopolysaccharidosis type VI ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of mucopolysaccharidosis type VI:  - Emory University Lysosomal Storage Disease Center  - Genetic Testing Registry: Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Mucopolysaccharides  - National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke: Mucopolysaccharidoses Fact Sheet  - National MPS Society: Treatments   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Carcinoid Tumors ?
Answer: Carcinoid tumors are rare, slow-growing cancers. They usually start in the lining of the digestive tract or in the lungs. They grow slowly and don't produce symptoms in the early stages. As a result, the average age of people diagnosed with digestive or lung carcinoids is about 60.     In later stages the tumors sometimes produce hormones that can cause carcinoid syndrome. The syndrome causes flushing of the face and upper chest, diarrhea, and trouble breathing.     Surgery is the main treatment for carcinoid tumors. If they haven't spread to other parts of the body, surgery can cure the cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is rheumatoid arthritis inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of rheumatoid arthritis is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. However, having a close relative with rheumatoid arthritis likely increases a person's risk of developing the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to X-linked immunodeficiency with magnesium defect, Epstein-Barr virus infection, and neoplasia ?
Answer: XMEN is caused by mutations in the MAGT1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called a magnesium transporter, which moves charged atoms (ions) of magnesium (Mg2+) into certain T cells. Specifically, the magnesium transporter produced from the MAGT1 gene is active in CD8+ T cells, which are especially important in controlling viral infections such as the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). These cells normally take in magnesium when they detect a foreign invader, and the magnesium is involved in activating the T cell's response.  Researchers suggest that magnesium transport may also be involved in the production of another type of T cell called helper T cells (CD4+ T cells) in a gland called the thymus. CD4+ T cells direct and assist the functions of the immune system by influencing the activities of other immune system cells.  Mutations in the MAGT1 gene impair the magnesium transporter's function, reducing the amount of magnesium that gets into T cells. This magnesium deficiency prevents the efficient activation of the T cells to target EBV and other infections. Uncontrolled EBV infection increases the likelihood of developing lymphoma. Impaired production of CD4+ T cells resulting from abnormal magnesium transport likely accounts for the deficiency of this type of T cell in people with XMEN, contributing to the decreased ability to prevent infection and illness.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is hereditary folate malabsorption inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Colorectal Cancer ?
Answer: The three standard treatments for colon cancer are surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. Surgery, however, is the most common first step in the treatment for all stages of colon cancer. Surgery is an operation to remove the cancer. A doctor may remove the cancer using several types of surgery. For rectal cancer, radiation treatment also is an option.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What causes Glaucoma ?
Answer: Nearly 2.7 million people have glaucoma, a leading cause of blindness in the United States. Although anyone can get glaucoma, some people are at higher risk. They include - African-Americans over age 40  - everyone over age 60, especially Hispanics/Latinos  - people with a family history of glaucoma. African-Americans over age 40 everyone over age 60, especially Hispanics/Latinos people with a family history of glaucoma.  In addition to age, eye pressure is a risk factor. Whether you develop glaucoma depends on the level of pressure your optic nerve can tolerate without being damaged. This level is different for each person. Thats why a comprehensive dilated eye exam is very important. It can help your eye care professional determine what level of eye pressure is normal for you. Another risk factor for optic nerve damage relates to blood pressure. Thus, it is important to also make sure that your blood pressure is at a proper level for your body by working with your medical doctor. (Watch the animated video to learn more about the causes of glaucoma. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Cerebellar hypoplasia tapetoretinal degeneration ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Cerebellar hypoplasia tapetoretinal degeneration? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cerebellar hypoplasia tapetoretinal degeneration. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal electroretinogram 90% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Incoordination 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Nystagmus 90% Optic atrophy 90% Visual impairment 90% Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar hypoplasia - Tremor - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type V ?
Answer: Mutations in the NGF gene cause HSAN5. The NGF gene provides instructions for making a protein called nerve growth factor beta (NGF) that is important in the development and survival of nerve cells (neurons), including sensory neurons. The NGF protein functions by attaching (binding) to its receptors, which are found on the surface of neurons. Binding of the NGF protein to its receptor transmits signals to the cell to grow and to mature and take on specialized functions (differentiate). This binding also blocks signals in the cell that initiate the process of self-destruction (apoptosis). Additionally, NGF signaling plays a role in pain sensation. Mutation of the NGF gene leads to the production of a protein that cannot bind to the receptor and does not transmit signals properly. Without the proper signaling, sensory neurons die and pain sensation is altered, resulting in the inability of people with HSAN5 to feel pain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome ?
Answer: MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome is an inherited disorder that can cause liver disease and neurological problems. The signs and symptoms of this condition begin in infancy and typically include vomiting, diarrhea, and an inability to grow or gain weight at the expected rate (failure to thrive). Many affected infants have a buildup of a chemical called lactic acid in the body (lactic acidosis) and low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Within the first weeks of life, infants develop liver disease that quickly progresses to liver failure. The liver is frequently enlarged (hepatomegaly) and liver cells often have a reduced ability to release a digestive fluid called bile (cholestasis). Rarely, affected children develop liver cancer. After the onset of liver disease, many affected infants develop neurological problems, which can include developmental delay, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and reduced sensation in the limbs (peripheral neuropathy). Individuals with MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome typically survive only into infancy or early childhood.  MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome is most frequently seen in the Navajo population of the southwestern United States. In this population, the condition is known as Navajo neurohepatopathy. People with Navajo neurohepatopathy tend to have a longer life expectancy than those with MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. In addition to the signs and symptoms described above, people with Navajo neurohepatopathy may have problems with sensing pain that can lead to painless bone fractures and self-mutilation of the fingers or toes. Individuals with Navajo neurohepatopathy may lack feeling in the clear front covering of the eye (corneal anesthesia), which can lead to open sores and scarring on the cornea, resulting in impaired vision. The cause of these additional features is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Depression ?
Answer: Depression is a serious medical illness. It's more than just a feeling of being sad or "blue" for a few days. If you are one of the more than 19 million teens and adults in the United States who have depression, the feelings do not go away. They persist and interfere with your everyday life. Symptoms can include       - Feeling sad or "empty"    - Loss of interest in favorite activities    - Overeating, or not wanting to eat at all    - Not being able to sleep, or sleeping too much    - Feeling very tired    - Feeling hopeless, irritable, anxious, or guilty    - Aches or pains, headaches, cramps, or digestive problems    - Thoughts of death or suicide       Depression is a disorder of the brain. There are a variety of causes, including genetic, biological, environmental, and psychological factors. Depression can happen at any age, but it often begins in teens and young adults. It is much more common in women. Women can also get postpartum depression after the birth of a baby. Some people get seasonal affective disorder in the winter. Depression is one part of bipolar disorder.    There are effective treatments for depression, including antidepressants, talk therapy, or both.    NIH: National Institute of Mental Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How to diagnose Heart Block ?
Answer: Heart block might be diagnosed as part of a routine doctor's visit or during an emergency situation. (Third-degree heart block often is an emergency.)
                
Your doctor will diagnose heart block based on your family and medical histories, a physical exam, and test results.
                
Specialists Involved
                
Your primary care doctor might be involved in diagnosing heart block. However, if you have the condition, you might need to see a heart specialist. Heart specialists include:
                
Cardiologists (doctors who diagnose and treat adults who have heart problems)
                
Pediatric cardiologists (doctors who diagnose and treat babies and children who have heart problems)
                
Electrophysiologists (cardiologists or pediatric cardiologists who specialize in the heart's electrical system)
                
Family and Medical Histories
                
Your doctor may ask whether:
                
You have any signs or symptoms of heart block
                
You have any health problems, such as heart disease
                
Any of your family members have been diagnosed with heart block or other health problems
                
You're taking any medicines, including herbal products and prescription and over-the-counter medicines
                
You smoke or use alcohol or drugs
                
Your doctor also may ask about other health habits, such as how physically active you are.
                
Physical Exam
                
During the physical exam, your doctor will listen to your heart. He or she will listen carefully for abnormal rhythms or heart murmurs (extra or unusual sounds heard during heartbeats).
                
Your doctor also may:
                
Check your pulse to find out how fast your heart is beating
                
Check for swelling in your legs or feet, which could be a sign of an enlarged heart or heart failure
                
Look for signs of other diseases that could be causing heart rate or rhythm problems (such as coronary heart disease)
                
Diagnostic Tests and Procedures
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
Doctors usually use an EKG (electrocardiogram) to help diagnose heart block. This simple test detects and records the heart's electrical activity.
                
An EKG shows how fast the heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). The test also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through the heart.
                
The data are recorded on a graph. Different types of heart block have different patterns on the graph. (For more information, go to "Types of Heart Block.")
                
A standard EKG only records the heart's activity for a few seconds. To diagnose heart rhythm problems that come and go, your doctor may have you wear a portable EKG monitor.
                
The most common types of portable EKGs are Holter and event monitors. Your doctor may have you use one of these monitors to diagnose first- or second-degree heart block.
                
Holter and Event Monitors
                
A Holter monitor records the heart's electrical signals for a full 24- or 48-hour period. You wear one while you do your normal daily activities. This allows the monitor to record your heart for a longer time than a standard EKG.
                
An event monitor is similar to a Holter monitor. You wear an event monitor while doing your normal activities. However, an event monitor only records your heart's electrical activity at certain times while you're wearing it.
                
You may wear an event monitor for 1 to 2 months, or as long as it takes to get a recording of your heart during symptoms.
                
Electrophysiology Study
                
For some cases of heart block, doctors may do electrophysiology studies (EPS). During this test, a thin, flexible wire is passed through a vein in your groin (upper thigh) or arm to your heart. The wire records your heart's electrical signals.
                
Other Tests
                
To diagnose heart block, your doctor may recommend tests to rule out other types of arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats). For more information, go to "How Are Arrhythmias Diagnosed?"
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Neuroblastoma ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Neuroblastoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in nerve tissue.    - Most cases of neuroblastoma are diagnosed before 1 year of age.     - The risk factors for neuroblastoma are not known.
                
                
                    Neuroblastoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in nerve tissue.
                    Neuroblastoma often begins in the nerve tissue of the adrenal glands. There are two adrenal glands, one on top of each kidney, in the back of the upper abdomen. The adrenal glands make important hormones that help control heart rate, blood pressure, blood sugar, and the way the body reacts to stress. Neuroblastoma may also begin in the abdomen, chest, spinal cord, or in nerve tissue near the spine in the neck.    Neuroblastoma most often begins during early childhood, usually in children younger than 5 years of age.   See the PDQ summary on Neuroblastoma Treatment for more information about neuroblastoma.
                
                
                    Most cases of neuroblastoma are diagnosed before 1 year of age.
                    Neuroblastoma is the most common type of cancer in infants. The number of new cases of neuroblastoma is greatest among children under 1 year of age. As children get older, the number of new cases decreases. Neuroblastoma is slightly more common in males than females.    Neuroblastoma sometimes forms before birth but is usually found later, when the tumor begins to grow and cause symptoms. In rare cases, neuroblastoma may be found before birth, by fetal ultrasound.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Multicentric osteolysis nephropathy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Multicentric osteolysis nephropathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Multicentric osteolysis nephropathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Decreased body weight 90% EMG abnormality 90% Gait disturbance 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Proptosis 90% Proteinuria 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 90% Slender long bone 90% Triangular face 90% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Nephropathy 50% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 7.5% Downturned corners of mouth 7.5% Polyhydramnios 7.5% Telecanthus 7.5% Wide nasal bridge 7.5% Ankle swelling - Arthralgia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Carpal osteolysis - Hypertension - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Metacarpal osteolysis - Metatarsal osteolysis - Osteolysis involving tarsal bones - Osteopenia - Pes cavus - Renal insufficiency - Ulnar deviation of the hand or of fingers of the hand - Wrist swelling - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Froelich syndrome ?
Answer: How might Froelich syndrome be diagnosed? Diagnosis of Froelich syndrome may be difficult and requires cautious and thoughtful clinical examination, testing urine for low levels of pituitary hormones, and likely other additional tests before a definitive diagnosis of Froehlich syndrome can be made.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Behcet's Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on painful neurological disorders such as Behcet's disease. The National Human Genome Research Institute, another Institute of the National Institutes of Health, conducts research into the genomic basis of Behcet's disease. This research is aimed at discovering the causes of these disorders and finding ways to treat, prevent, and, ultimately, cure them.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Leukemia ?
Answer: Treatment depends on a number of factors, including the type of leukemia, the patient's age and general health, where leukemia cells have collected in the body, and whether the leukemia has been treated before. Certain features of the leukemia cells and the patient's symptoms also may determine treatment options.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4B2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Areflexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Decreased motor nerve conduction velocity - Decreased number of peripheral myelinated nerve fibers - Difficulty walking - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - Foot dorsiflexor weakness - Glaucoma - Hammertoe - Hyporeflexia - Juvenile onset - Kyphoscoliosis - Onion bulb formation - Pes cavus - Segmental peripheral demyelination/remyelination - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Steppage gait - Talipes equinovarus - Ulnar claw - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Blood Transfusion and Donation
Answer: Summary : Every year, millions of people in the United States receive life-saving blood transfusions. During a transfusion, you receive whole blood or parts of blood such as       -  Red blood cells - cells that carry oxygen to and from tissues and organs    - Platelets - cells that form clots to control bleeding    - Plasma - the liquid part of the blood that helps clotting. You may need it if you have been badly burned, have liver failure or a severe infection.       Most blood transfusions go very smoothly. Some infectious agents, such as HIV, can survive in blood and infect the person receiving the blood transfusion. To keep blood safe, blood banks carefully screen donated blood. The risk of catching a virus from a blood transfusion is low.    Sometimes it is possible to have a transfusion of your own blood. During surgery, you may need a blood transfusion because of blood loss. If you are having a surgery that you're able to schedule months in advance, your doctor may ask whether you would like to use your own blood, instead of donated blood. If so, you will need to have blood drawn one or more times before the surgery. A blood bank will store your blood for your use.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Do you have information about Child Care
Answer: Summary : Children's healthy development depends on safe and positive experiences when they are very young. If you work or go to school, you want to know that your child is in good hands while you are away. You may choose in-home care, where the caregiver comes to your home. Or your child might go to the caregiver's home. Finally, there are child care centers. You need to choose the one that works for your family.     It is important to get to know your child's caregivers. They will be a big part of your child's life. The caregiver's training should involve       - Knowledge of how young children learn and grow    - Positive, consistent discipline    - Knowledge of the signs that a child is sick    - Cleanliness and safety practices to help keep kids from getting sick or hurt    - Basic first aid
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Andersen-Tawil syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Andersen-Tawil syndrome? Anderson-Tawil syndrome causes episodes of muscle weakness (periodic paralysis), changes in heart rhythm (arrhythmia), and developmental abnormalities. The most common changes affecting the heart are ventricular arrhythmia, which is a disruption in the rhythm of the heart's lower chambers, and long QT syndrome. Long QT syndrome is a heart condition that causes the heart muscle to take longer than usual to recharge between beats. If untreated, the irregular heartbeats can lead to discomfort, fainting, or cardiac arrest. Physical abnormalities associated with Andersen-Tawil syndrome typically affect the head, face, and limbs. These features often include a very small lower jaw (micrognathia), dental abnormalities, low-set ears, widely spaced eyes, and unusual curving of the fingers or toes (clinodactyly). Some affected people also have short stature and an abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis). The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Andersen-Tawil syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Specific learning disability 7.5% Antegonial notching of mandible - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bidirectional ventricular ectopy - Blepharophimosis - Brachydactyly syndrome - Broad forehead - Bulbous nose - Cleft palate - Clinodactyly of the 5th finger - Clinodactyly of the 5th toe - Delayed eruption of permanent teeth - Delayed skeletal maturation - Facial asymmetry - Growth abnormality - High palate - Hypertelorism - Hypoplasia of dental enamel - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Joint laxity - Low-set ears - Malar flattening - Microcephaly - Oligodontia - Palpitations - Periodic hypokalemic paresis - Persistence of primary teeth - Preauricular pit - Prolonged QT interval - Prominent frontal sinuses - Scapular winging - Scoliosis - Short foot - Short mandibular rami - Short metacarpal - Short metatarsal - Short palm - Short palpebral fissure - Short phalanx of finger - Slender long bone - Small hand - Syncope - Toe syndactyly - Triangular face - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Gingivitis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Immunodeficiency Disorders  - Primary Immune Deficiency Treatment Consortium   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis ?
Answer: Pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. About 600 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature, of whom about a quarter are of Turkish descent. The remainder come from populations worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Alcohol Use and Older Adults ?
Answer: There is not one right treatment for everyone with alcohol problems. In general, many people need more than one kind of treatment. Medicines can help people with alcohol use disorder quit drinking. Meeting with a therapist or substance-abuse counselor or with a support group may also help. Support from family and friends is important, too. A doctor can help a person decide on the best treatment. Making a change sooner rather than later makes treatment more likely to succeed. Learn more about treatment options for alcohol problems.  Learn more about available types of alcohol treatment.  (Watch the video to learn more about getting help for alcohol use disorder (AUD). To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease? Signs and symptoms of Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease generally develop between ages 35 and 50 years. Affected people may experience: Progressive ataxia, including clumsiness, unsteadiness, and difficulty walking Cognitive disfunction leading to bradyphrenia (slowness of thought processing) and dementia Dysarthria (slurred speech) Nystagmus Spasticity (rigid muscle tone) Visual disturbances, sometimes leading to blindness Lack of coordination in swallowing Deafness Parkinsonian features (present in some families) The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adult onset - Aggressive behavior - Apraxia - Areflexia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bradykinesia - Cerebellar atrophy - Dementia - Depression - Dysarthria - Emotional lability - Gait ataxia - Hyperreflexia - Impaired smooth pursuit - Limb ataxia - Lower limb muscle weakness - Memory impairment - Myoclonus - Neurofibrillary tangles - Parkinsonism - Perseveration - Personality changes - Phenotypic variability - Psychosis - Rapidly progressive - Rigidity - Spasticity - Tremor - Truncal ataxia - Weight loss - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to distal arthrogryposis type 1 ?
Answer: Distal arthrogryposis type 1 can be caused by mutations in at least two genes: TPM2 and MYBPC1. These genes are active (expressed) in muscle cells, where they interact with other muscle proteins to help regulate the tensing of muscle fibers (muscle contraction). It is unclear how mutations in the TPM2 and MYBPC1 genes lead to the joint abnormalities characteristic of distal arthrogryposis type 1. However, researchers speculate that contractures may be related to problems with muscle contraction that limit the movement of joints before birth.  In some cases, the genetic cause of distal arthrogryposis type 1 is unknown. Researchers are looking for additional genetic changes that may be responsible for this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by DOORS syndrome ?
Answer: DOORS syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Approximately 50 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Frontal fibrosing alopecia ?
Answer: Frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) is a form of lichen planus follicularis that is characterized primarily by slowly progressive hair loss (alopecia) and scarring on the scalp near the forehead. In some cases, the eyebrows, eye lashes and/or other parts of the body may be involved, as well. Although it has been suggested that FFA may be due to hormonal changes or an autoimmune response, the exact cause of this condition is not yet known. There is currently no cure for FFA; however, treatment with certain types of medications may stop or slow hair loss in some cases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by distal myopathy 2 ?
Answer: The prevalence of distal myopathy 2 is unknown. At least two families with the condition have been described in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the stages of Breast Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - After breast cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the breast or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for breast cancer:         - Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ)     - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage IIIA     - Stage IIIB     - Stage IIIC     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After breast cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the breast or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if the cancer has spread within the breast or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment.   Some procedures may expose the unborn baby to harmful radiation or dyes. These procedures are done only if absolutely necessary. Certain actions can be taken to expose the unborn baby to as little radiation as possible, such as the use of a lead-lined shield to cover the abdomen.   The following tests and procedures may be used to stage breast cancer during pregnancy:         -   Sentinel lymph node biopsy : The removal of the sentinel lymph node during surgery. The sentinel lymph node is the first lymph node to receive lymphatic drainage from a tumor. It is the first lymph node the cancer is likely to spread to from the tumor. A radioactive substance and/or blue dye is injected near the tumor. The substance or dye flows through the lymph ducts to the lymph nodes. The first lymph node to receive the substance or dye is removed. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. If cancer cells are not found, it may not be necessary to remove more lymph nodes.     -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.     -   Bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in bones with cancer and is detected by a scanner.    -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.     -    MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the brain. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   Ultrasound exam: A procedure in which high-energy sound waves (ultrasound) are bounced off internal tissues or organs, such as the liver, and make echoes. The echoes form a picture of body tissues called a sonogram. The picture can be printed to be looked at later.    -   Chest x-ray : An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if breast cancer spreads to the bone, the cancer cells in the bone are actually breast cancer cells. The disease is metastatic breast cancer, not bone cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for breast cancer:
                    This section describes the stages of breast cancer. The breast cancer stage is based on the results of testing that is done on the tumor and lymph nodes removed during surgery and other tests.     Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ)    There are 3 types of breast carcinoma in situ:            -  Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is a noninvasive condition in which abnormal cells are found in the lining of a breast duct. The abnormal cells have not spread outside the duct to other tissues in the breast. In some cases, DCIS may become invasive cancer and spread to other tissues. At this time, there is no way to know which lesions could become invasive.     -  Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is a condition in which abnormal cells are found in the lobules of the breast. This condition seldom becomes invasive cancer. However, having LCIS in one breast increases the risk of developing breast cancer in either breast.     -  Paget disease of the nipple is a condition in which abnormal cells are found in the nipple only.               Stage I     In stage I, cancer has formed. Stage I is divided into stages IA and IB.            - In stage IA, the tumor is 2 centimeters or smaller. Cancer has not spread outside the breast.     - In stage IB, small clusters of breast cancer cells (larger than 0.2 millimeter but not larger than 2 millimeters) are found in the lymph nodes and either:                  - no tumor is found in the breast; or       - the tumor is 2 centimeters or smaller.                         Stage II     Stage II is divided into stages IIA and IIB.            - In stage IIA:                  - no tumor is found in the breast or the tumor is 2 centimeters or smaller. Cancer (larger than 2 millimeters) is found in 1 to 3 axillary lymph nodes or in the lymph nodes near the breastbone (found during a sentinel lymph node biopsy); or        - the tumor is larger than 2 centimeters but not larger than 5 centimeters. Cancer has not spread to the lymph nodes.                - In stage IIB, the tumor is:                  - larger than 2 centimeters but not larger than 5 centimeters. Small clusters of breast cancer cells (larger than 0.2 millimeter but not larger than 2 millimeters) are found in the lymph nodes; or        - larger than 2 centimeters but not larger than 5 centimeters. Cancer has spread to 1 to 3 axillary lymph nodes or to the lymph nodes near the breastbone (found during a sentinel lymph node biopsy); or        - larger than 5 centimeters. Cancer has not spread to the lymph nodes.                          Stage IIIA     In stage IIIA:            - no tumor is found in the breast or the tumor may be any size. Cancer is found in 4 to 9 axillary lymph nodes or in the lymph nodes near the breastbone (found during imaging tests or a physical exam); or      - the tumor is larger than 5 centimeters. Small clusters of breast cancer cells (larger than 0.2 millimeter but not larger than 2 millimeters) are found in the lymph nodes; or      - the tumor is larger than 5 centimeters. Cancer has spread to 1 to 3 axillary lymph nodes or to the lymph nodes near the breastbone (found during a sentinel lymph node biopsy).               Stage IIIB     In stage IIIB, the tumor may be any size and cancer has spread to the chest wall and/or to the skin of the breast and caused swelling or an ulcer. Also, cancer may have spread to:            - up to 9 axillary lymph nodes; or     - the lymph nodes near the breastbone.           Cancer that has spread to the skin of the breast may also be inflammatory breast cancer. See the section on Inflammatory Breast Cancer for more information.       Stage IIIC     In stage IIIC, no tumor is found in the breast or the tumor may be any size. Cancer may have spread to the skin of the breast and caused swelling or an ulcer and/or has spread to the chest wall. Also, cancer has spread to:             - 10 or more axillary lymph nodes; or     -  lymph nodes above or below the collarbone; or     - axillary lymph nodes and lymph nodes near the breastbone.           Cancer that has spread to the skin of the breast may also be inflammatory breast cancer. See the section on Inflammatory Breast Cancer for more information.    For treatment, stage IIIC breast cancer is divided into operable and inoperable stage IIIC.        Stage IV     In stage IV, cancer has spread to other organs of the body, most often the bones, lungs, liver, or brain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by Heart Failure ?
Answer: Approximately 5 million people in the United States have heart failure. It contributes to 300,000 deaths each year. It is the number one cause of hospitalizations for people over the age of 65.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Hypokalemic periodic paralysis ?
Answer: Hypokalemic periodic paralysis is a condition that causes episodes of extreme muscle weakness typically beginning in childhood or adolescence. Most often, these episodes involve a temporary inability to move muscles in the arms and legs. The duration and frequency of the episodes may vary. Hypokalemic periodic paralysis is caused by mutations in the CACNA1S and SCN4A genes which are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. A small percentage of people with the characteristic features of hypokalemic periodic paralysis do not have identified mutations in these genes. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown. Paralytic crises can be treated with oral or IV potassium. Other management includes prevention of crises and support of specific symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IE ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IE:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: DNMT1-Related Dementia, Deafness, and Sensory Neuropathy  - University of Chicago: Center for Peripheral Neuropathy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to hystrix-like ichthyosis with deafness ?
Answer: HID is caused by mutations in the GJB2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called gap junction beta 2, more commonly known as connexin 26. Connexin 26 is a member of the connexin protein family. Connexin proteins form channels called gap junctions that permit the transport of nutrients, charged atoms (ions), and signaling molecules between neighboring cells that are in contact with each other. Gap junctions made with connexin 26 transport potassium ions and certain small molecules.  Connexin 26 is found in cells throughout the body, including the inner ear and the skin. In the inner ear, channels made from connexin 26 are found in a snail-shaped structure called the cochlea. These channels may help to maintain the proper level of potassium ions required for the conversion of sound waves to electrical nerve impulses. This conversion is essential for normal hearing. In addition, connexin 26 may be involved in the maturation of certain cells in the cochlea. Connexin 26 also plays a role in the growth and maturation of the outermost layer of skin (the epidermis).  At least one GJB2 gene mutation has been identified in people with HID. This mutation changes a single protein building block (amino acid) in connexin 26. The mutation is thought to result in channels that constantly leak ions, which impairs the health of the cells and increases cell death. Death of cells in the skin and the inner ear may underlie the signs and symptoms of HID.  Because the GJB2 gene mutation identified in people with HID also occurs in keratitis-ichthyosis-deafness syndrome (KID syndrome), a disorder with similar features and the addition of eye abnormalities, many researchers categorize KID syndrome and HID as a single disorder, which they call KID/HID. It is not known why some people with this mutation have eye problems while others do not.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) distal arthrogryposis type 1 ?
Answer: Distal arthrogryposis type 1 is a disorder characterized by joint deformities (contractures) that restrict movement in the hands and feet. The term "arthrogryposis" comes from the Greek words for joint (arthro-) and crooked or hooked (gryposis). The characteristic features of this condition include permanently bent fingers and toes (camptodactyly), overlapping fingers, and a hand deformity in which all of the fingers are angled outward toward the fifth finger (ulnar deviation). Clubfoot, which is an inward- and upward-turning foot, is also commonly seen with distal arthrogryposis type 1. The specific hand and foot abnormalities vary among affected individuals. However, this condition typically does not cause any signs and symptoms affecting other parts of the body.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type ?
Answer: How might Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type be treated? The treatment of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), dermatosparaxis type is focused on preventing serious complications and relieving associated signs and symptoms. For example, physical therapy may be recommended in children with moderate to severe joint hypermobility. Assistive devices such as braces, wheelchairs, or scooters may also be necessary depending on the severity of joint instability. Hernias may be treated with surgery. Because EDS, dermatosparaxis type is associated with extremely fragile skin, affected people, especially children, may need to use protective bandages or pads over exposed areas, such as the knees, shins, and forehead. Heavy exercise and contact sports may also need to be avoided due to skin fragility and easy bruising. Please speak to your healthcare provider if you have any questions about your personal medical management plan.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 ?
Answer: The prevalence of SCA3 is unknown. This condition is thought to be the most common type of spinocerebellar ataxia; however, all types of spinocerebellar ataxia are relatively rare.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Heart Block? ?
Answer: The risk factors for congenital and acquired heart block are different.
                
Congenital Heart Block
                
If a pregnant woman has an autoimmune disease, such as lupus, her fetus is at risk for heart block.
                
Autoimmune diseases can cause the body to make proteins called antibodies that can cross the placenta. (The placenta is the organ that attaches the umbilical cord to the mother's womb.) These antibodies may damage the baby's heart and lead to congenital heart block.
                
Congenital heart defects also can cause heart block. These defects are problems with the heart's structure that are present at birth. Most of the time, doctors don't know what causes congenital heart defects.
                
Heredity may play a role in certain heart defects. For example, a parent who has a congenital heart defect might be more likely than other people to have a child with the condition.
                
Acquired Heart Block
                
Acquired heart block can occur in people of any age. However, most types of the condition are more common in older people. This is because many of the risk factors are more common in older people.
                
People who have a history of heart disease or heart attacks are at increased risk for heart block. Examples of heart disease that can lead to heart block include heart failure, coronary heart disease, and cardiomyopathy (heart muscle diseases).
                
Other diseases also may raise the risk of heart block, such as sarcoidosis and the degenerative muscle disorders Lev's disease and Lenegre's disease.
                
Exposure to toxic substances or taking certain medicines, such as digitalis, also can raise your risk for heart block.
                
Well-trained athletes and young people are at higher risk for first-degree heart block caused by an overly active vagus nerve. You have one vagus nerve on each side of your body. These nerves run from your brain stem all the way to your abdomen. Activity in the vagus nerve slows the heart rate.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Hyperthermia induced defects ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hyperthermia induced defects? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hyperthermia induced defects. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of prenatal development or birth 90% Cognitive impairment 90% EEG abnormality 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Seizures 90% Short stature 90% Abnormality of neuronal migration 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 50% Cleft palate 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Hypoplasia of penis 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Malar flattening 50% Microcephaly 50% Single transverse palmar crease 50% Hypertonia 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy disease ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of MNGIE disease:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Mitochondrial Neurogastrointestinal Encephalopathy Disease  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myoneural gastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Leukoencephalopathy (image)   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula ?
Answer: EA/TEF occurs in 1 in 3,000 to 5,000 newborns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Problems with Smell ?
Answer: Depending on the cause of your smell disorder, your doctor may be able to treat your problem or suggest ways to cope with it. If a certain medication is the cause of the disorder, ask your doctor if you could substitute other medications or reduce the dose. Your doctor will work with you to get the medicine you need while trying to reduce unwanted side effects. Some patients with respiratory infections or allergies regain their sense of smell when the illness or condition is over. Often, correcting a general medical problem also can restore the sense of smell. For patients with nasal obstructions, such as polyps, or other inflammatory conditions of the nose or sinuses, medical treatments or surgery can restore the sense of smell. Occasionally, the sense of smell returns to normal on its own, without any treatment. Your doctor may suggest oral steroid medications such as prednisone, which is usually used for a short period of time, or topical steroid sprays, which can be used for longer periods of time. Antibiotics are also used to treat nasal infections. The effectiveness of both steroids and antibiotics depends greatly on the severity and duration of the nasal swelling or infection. Often relief is temporary.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is Rotor syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. In Rotor syndrome, an affected individual must have mutations in both the SLCO1B1 and the SLCO1B3 gene, so both copies of the two genes are altered. The parents of an individual with this condition each carry one altered copy of both genes, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Ewing Sarcoma ?
Answer: Tests that examine the bone and soft tissue are used to diagnose and stage Ewing sarcoma.
                    Procedures that make pictures of the bones and soft tissues and nearby areas help diagnose Ewing sarcoma and show how far the cancer has spread. The process used to find out if cancer cells have spread within and around the bones and soft tissues is called staging.   In order to plan treatment, it is important to know if the cancer is in the area where it first formed or if it has spread to other parts of the body. Tests and procedures to detect, diagnose, and stage Ewing sarcoma are usually done at the same time.   The following tests and procedures may be used to diagnose or stage Ewing sarcoma:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the area where the tumor formed. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the area where the tumor formed or the chest, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do. A PET scan and a CT scan are often done at the same time. If there is any cancer, this increases the chance that it will be found.    -   Bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in the bones with cancer and is detected by a scanner.    -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow and a small piece of bone by inserting a hollow needle into the hipbone. Samples are removed from both hipbones. A pathologist views the bone marrow and bone under a microscope to see if the cancer has spread.    -  X-ray: An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body, such as the chest or the area where the tumor formed.    -   Complete blood count (CBC): A procedure in which a sample of blood is drawn and checked for the following:               - The number of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.      - The amount of hemoglobin (the protein that carries oxygen) in the red blood cells.      - The portion of the blood sample made up of red blood cells.              -   Blood chemistry studies : A procedure in which a blood sample is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances, such as lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), released into the blood by organs and tissues in the body. An unusual (higher or lower than normal) amount of a substance can be a sign of disease.
                
                
                    A biopsy is done to diagnose Ewing sarcoma.
                    Tissue samples are removed during a biopsy so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer. It is helpful if the biopsy is done at the same center where treatment will be given.         -   Needle biopsy : For a needle biopsy, tissue is removed using a needle. This type of needle biopsy may be done if its possible to remove tissue samples large enough to be used for testing.    -   Incisional biopsy : For an incisional biopsy, a sample of tissue is removed through an incision in the skin.     -   Excisional biopsy : The removal of an entire lump or area of tissue that doesnt look normal.        The specialists (pathologist, radiation oncologist, and surgeon) who will treat the patient usually work together to decide where the needle should be placed or the biopsy incision should be made. This is done so that the biopsy doesn't affect later treatment such as surgery to remove the tumor or radiation therapy.   If there is a chance that the cancer has spread to nearby lymph nodes, one or more lymph nodes may be removed and checked for signs of cancer.   The following tests may be done on the tissue that is removed:         -   Cytogenetic analysis : A laboratory test in which cells in a sample of tissue are viewed under a microscope to look for certain changes in the chromosomes.    -   Immunohistochemistry : A test that uses antibodies to check for certain antigens in a sample of tissue. The antibody is usually linked to a radioactive substance or a dye that causes the tissue to light up under a microscope. This type of test may be used to tell the difference between different types of cancer.    -   Flow cytometry : A laboratory test that measures the number of cells in a sample, the percentage of live cells in a sample, and certain characteristics of cells, such as size, shape, and the presence of tumor markers on the cell surface. The cells are stained with a light-sensitive dye, placed in a fluid, and passed in a stream before a laser or other type of light. The measurements are based on how the light-sensitive dye reacts to the light.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for lamellar ichthyosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of lamellar ichthyosis:  - Foundation for Ichthyosis and Related Skin Types (FIRST): Skin Care Tips  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Autosomal Recessive Congenital Ichthyosis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis 4A  - Genetic Testing Registry: Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis 8  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital ichthyosis of skin   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by distal arthrogryposis type 1 ?
Answer: Distal arthrogryposis type 1 affects an estimated 1 in 10,000 people worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly ?
Answer: What causes mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly? Mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly (MFDM) is caused by mutations in the EFTUD2 gene. This gene gives the body instructions for making part of spliceosomes, which help process a type of RNA- a chemical cousin of DNA that serves as a genetic blueprint for making proteins. Mutations in EFTUD2 impair the production or function of the enzyme from the gene, which impairs the processing of mRNA. However, at this time, it is not clear how this process causes the specific symptoms of MFDM.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy ?
Answer: Research is ongoing on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Better understanding of those common, related disorders will go a long way toward solving the problem of PSP, just as studying PSP may help shed light on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Oropharyngeal Cancer ?
Answer: Signs and symptoms of oropharyngeal cancer include a lump in the neck and a sore throat. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by oropharyngeal cancer or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         - A sore throat that does not go away.    - Trouble swallowing.    - Trouble opening the mouth fully.    - Trouble moving the tongue.    - Weight loss for no known reason.    - Ear pain.    - A lump in the back of the mouth, throat, or neck.    - A white patch on the tongue or lining of the mouth that does not go away.    - Coughing up blood.        Sometimes oropharyngeal cancer does not cause early signs or symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors? ?
Answer: Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of an extracranial germ cell tumor. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your childs doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Possible risk factors for extracranial germ cell tumors include the following:         - Having certain genetic syndromes:               -  Klinefelter syndrome may increase the risk of germ cell tumors in the mediastinum.      - Swyer syndrome may increase the risk of germ cell tumors in the testicles or ovaries.      - Turner syndrome may increase the risk of germ cell tumors in the ovaries.             - Having an undescended testicle may increase the risk of developing a testicular germ cell tumor.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Amniotic band syndrome ?
Answer: Amniotic band syndrome refers to a condition in which bands extend from (and originating from) the inner lining of the amnion. The amnion is the sac that surrounds the baby in the womb. As the baby develops in the womb, its extremities may become entangled in the amniotic band resulting in constriction or even amputation. When this happens the baby is said to have amniotic band syndrome. Amniotic bands are thought to happen sporadically or in association with trauma to the abdomen. It can be a complication after an amniocentesis and/or it can indicate early rupture of the amniotic sac.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by GRACILE syndrome ?
Answer: GRACILE syndrome is found almost exclusively in Finland, where it is estimated to affect 1 in 47,000 infants. At least 32 affected infants have been described in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia ?
Answer: Although iron deficiency anemia is relatively common, the prevalence of the iron-refractory form of the disease is unknown. At least 50 cases have been described in the medical literature. Researchers suspect that iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia is underdiagnosed because affected individuals with very mild symptoms may never come to medical attention.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Central Cord Syndrome ?
Answer: There is no cure for central cord syndrome although some people recover near-normal function. There is no standard course of treatment, although drug therapy, surgery, and rest are often part of the program. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used to indicate the degree of spinal cord compression and vertebral instability. Vertebral instability due to acute traumatic injury or cervical disc herniation is often treated by surgery to prevent further damage to the spinal cord. Recent reports indicate that earlier surgery may improve chances for recovery. Numerous recent studies suggest that surgery also can be beneficial in individuals with persistent compression of the spinal cord and ongoing neurological deterioration.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Patent Ductus Arteriosus ?
Answer: A heart murmur may be the only sign that a baby has patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). A heart murmur is an extra or unusual sound heard during the heartbeat. Heart murmurs also have other causes besides PDA, and most murmurs are harmless.
                
Some infants may develop signs or symptoms of volume overload on the heart and excess blood flow in the lungs. Signs and symptoms may include:
                
Fast breathing, working hard to breathe, or shortness of breath. Premature infants may need increased oxygen or help breathing from a ventilator.
                
Poor feeding and poor weight gain.
                
Tiring easily.
                
Sweating with exertion, such as while feeding.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Leukemia ?
Answer: Biological therapy is a treatment that uses a person's own immune system to fight leukemia. This therapy uses special substances to stimulate the immune system's ability to fight cancer. Some patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia receive monoclonal antibodies, which are man-made proteins that can identify leukemia cells and help the body kill them.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the genetic changes related to vitiligo ?
Answer: Variations in over 30 genes, occurring in different combinations, have been associated with an increased risk of developing vitiligo. Two of these genes are NLRP1 and PTPN22. The NLRP1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the immune system, helping to regulate the process of inflammation. Inflammation occurs when the immune system sends signaling molecules and white blood cells to a site of injury or disease to fight microbial invaders and facilitate tissue repair. The body then stops (inhibits) the inflammatory response to prevent damage to its own cells and tissues.  The PTPN22 gene provides instructions for making a protein involved in signaling that helps control the activity of immune system cells called T cells. T cells identify foreign substances and defend the body against infection.  The variations in the NLRP1 and PTPN22 genes that are associated with an increased risk of developing vitiligo likely affect the activity of the NLRP1 and PTPN22 proteins, making it more difficult for the body to control inflammation and prevent the immune system from attacking its own tissues.  Studies indicate that variations in a number of other genes also affect the risk of vitiligo. Many of these genes are also involved in immune system function or melanocyte biology, and variations in each likely make only a small contribution to vitiligo risk. Some of the gene changes associated with an increased risk of vitiligo have also been associated with an increased risk of other autoimmune conditions.  It is unclear what specific circumstances trigger the immune system to attack melanocytes in the skin. Research suggests that the immune system of affected individuals may react abnormally to melanocytes that are stressed by factors such as chemicals or ultraviolet radiation. In addition, the melanocytes of people with vitiligo may be more susceptible to stress than those of the general population and therefore may be more likely to be attacked by the immune system. The condition probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors, most of which have not been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for X-linked lymphoproliferative disease ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of XLP:  - Children's Hospital of Philadelphia  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Lymphoproliferative Disease, X-Linked  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lymphoproliferative syndrome 1, X-linked  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lymphoproliferative syndrome 2, X-linked  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Epstein-Barr Virus Test  - Merck Manual for Healthcare Professionals  - XLP Research Trust: Immunoglobulin Replacement  - XLP Research Trust: Preparing for Bone Marrow Transplant   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Familial dilated cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Familial dilated cardiomyopathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial dilated cardiomyopathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 90% Abnormality of neutrophils 7.5% EMG abnormality 7.5% Lipoatrophy 7.5% Myopathy 7.5% Palmoplantar keratoderma 7.5% Sensorineural hearing impairment 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is monilethrix inherited ?
Answer: Monilethrix can have multiple patterns of inheritance. When the condition is caused by a mutation in one of the keratin genes, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In rare cases, the condition results from a new mutation in the gene and is not inherited.  When the condition is caused by mutations in the DSG4 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Fragile X syndrome ?
Answer: How might fragile X syndrome be treated? There is no specific treatment available for fragile X syndrome.  Management of this condition is generally supportive and may include: recognizing the need for special education and avoiding excessive stimulation, which may help with behavioral problems early educational intervention and special education that is tailored to specific learning difficulties; small class size, individual attention and avoidance of sudden change is often needed medications for behavioral issues that affect social interaction routine medical management of strabismus, ear infections, reflux, seizures, mitral valve prolapse, and/or high blood pressure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Proximal symphalangism ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for Cushing's symphalangism? GeneTests lists the names of laboratories that are performing genetic testing for Cushing's symphalangism. To view the contact information for the clinical laboratories conducting testing, click here. Please note:  Most of the laboratories listed through GeneTests do not accept direct contact from patients and their families; therefore, if you are interested in learning more, you will need to work with a health care provider or a genetics professional.  Below, we provide a list of online resources that can assist you in locating a genetics professional near you.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: The signs and symptoms of Alagille syndrome and their severity vary, even among people in the same family sharing the same gene mutation.
                
Liver
                
In some people, problems in the liver may be the first signs and symptoms of the disorder. These signs and symptoms can occur in children and adults with Alagille syndrome, and in infants as early as the first 3 months of life.
                
Jaundice. Jaundicewhen the skin and whites of the eyes turn yellowis a result of the liver not removing bilirubin from the blood. Bilirubin is a reddish-yellow substance formed when hemoglobin breaks down. Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that gives blood its red color. Bilirubin is absorbed by the liver, processed, and released into bile. Blockage of the bile ducts forces bilirubin and other elements of bile to build up in the blood.
                
Jaundice may be difficult for parents and even health care providers to detect. Many healthy newborns have mild jaundice during the first 1 to 2 weeks of life due to an immature liver. This normal type of jaundice disappears by the second or third week of life, whereas the jaundice of Alagille syndrome deepens. Newborns with jaundice after 2 weeks of life should be seen by a health care provider to check for a possible liver problem.
                
Dark urine and gray or white stools. High levels of bilirubin in the blood that pass into the urine can make the urine darker, while stool lightens from a lack of bilirubin reaching the intestines. Gray or white bowel movements after 2 weeks of age are a reliable sign of a liver problem and should prompt a visit to a health care provider.
                
Pruritus. The buildup of bilirubin in the blood may cause itching, also called pruritus. Pruritus usually starts after 3 months of age and can be severe.
                
Xanthomas. Xanthomas are fatty deposits that appear as yellow bumps on the skin. They are caused by abnormally high cholesterol levels in the blood, common in people with liver disease. Xanthomas may appear anywhere on the body. However, xanthomas are usually found on the elbows, joints, tendons, knees, hands, feet, or buttocks.
                
Other Signs and Symptoms of Alagille Syndrome
                
Certain signs of Alagille syndrome are unique to the disorder, including those that affect the vertebrae and facial features.
                
Face. Many children with Alagille syndrome have deep-set eyes, a straight nose, a small and pointed chin, large ears, and a prominent, wide forehead. These features are not usually recognized until after infancy. By adulthood, the chin is more prominent.
                
Eyes. Posterior embryotoxon is a condition in which an opaque ring is present in the cornea, the transparent covering of the eyeball. The abnormality is common in people with Alagille syndrome, though it usually does not affect vision.
                
Skeleton. The most common skeletal defect in a person with Alagille syndrome is when the shape of the vertebraebones of the spinegives the appearance of flying butterflies. This defect, known as "butterfly" vertebrae, rarely causes medical problems or requires treatment.
                
Heart and blood vessels. People with Alagille syndrome may have the following signs and symptoms having to do with the heart and blood vessels:
                
- heart murmuran extra or unusual sound heard during a heartbeat. A heart murmur is the most common sign of Alagille syndrome other than the general symptoms of liver disease.1 Most people with Alagille syndrome have a narrowing of the blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to the lungs.1 This narrowing causes a murmur that can be heard with a stethoscope. Heart murmurs usually do not cause problems.  - heart walls and valve problems. A small number of people with Alagille syndrome have serious problems with the walls or valves of the heart. These conditions may need treatment with medications or corrective surgery.  - blood vessel problems. People with Alagille syndrome may have abnormalities of the blood vessels in the head and neck. This serious complication can lead to internal bleeding or stroke. Alagille syndrome can also cause narrowing or bulging of other blood vessels in the body.
                
Kidney disease. A wide range of kidney diseases can occur in Alagille syndrome. The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist, that filter wastes and extra fluid from the blood. Some people have small kidneys or have cystsfluid-filled sacsin the kidneys. Kidney function can also decrease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of COPD ?
Answer: The most common symptoms of COPD are a cough that does not go away and coughing up a lot of sputum (mucus). These symptoms may occur years before lung damage has reduced the flow of air in and out of the lungs. Other symptoms of COPD include shortness of breath, especially with exercise; wheezing (a whistling sound when you breathe); and tightness in the chest.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is GM2-gangliosidosis, AB variant inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ?
Answer: Mutations in the CYP27A1 gene cause cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. The CYP27A1 gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme called sterol 27-hydroxylase. This enzyme works in the pathway that breaks down cholesterol to form acids used in the digestion of fats (bile acids). Mutations in sterol 27-hydroxylase impair its ability to break down cholesterol to a specific bile acid called chenodeoxycholic acid. As a result, a molecule called cholestanol, which is similar to cholesterol, accumulates in xanthomas, blood, nerve cells, and the brain. Cholesterol levels are not increased in the blood, but they are elevated in various tissues throughout the body. The accumulation of cholesterol and cholestanol in the brain, tendons, and other tissues causes the signs and symptoms of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Colorectal Cancer ?
Answer: There are several treatment options for colorectal cancer, although most treatments begin with surgical removal of either the cancerous polyp or section of the colon. The choice of treatment depends on your age and general health, the stage of cancer, whether or not it has spread beyond the colon, and other factors. If tests show that you have cancer, you should talk with your doctor and make treatment decisions as soon as possible. Studies show that early treatment leads to better outcomes. Working With a Team of Specialists A team of specialists often treats people with cancer. The team will keep the primary doctor informed about the patient's progress. The team may include a medical oncologist who is a specialist in cancer treatment, a surgeon, a radiation oncologist who is a specialist in radiation therapy, and others. Before starting treatment, you may want another doctor to review the diagnosis and treatment plan. Some insurance companies require a second opinion. Others may pay for a second opinion if you request it. Clinical Trials for Colorectal Cancer Some colorectal cancer patients take part in studies of new treatments. These studies, called clinical trials, are designed to find out whether a new treatment is safe and effective. Often, clinical trials compare a new treatment with a standard one so that doctors can learn which is more effective. People with colorectal cancer who are interested in taking part in a clinical trial should talk with their doctor. The U.S. National Institutes of Health, through its National Library of Medicine and other Institutes, maintains a database of clinical trials at ClinicalTrials.gov. Click here to see a list of the current clinical trials on colorectal cancer. A separate window will open. Click the "x" in the upper right hand corner of the "Clinical Trials" window to return here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is DOLK-congenital disorder of glycosylation inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Problems with Smell ?
Answer: Smell is part of our chemical sensing system. Our sense of smell is the ability to detect odors in our environment through our nose, like the fragrance of flowers or the smell of baking bread. Smell is also the ability to detect food odors or aromas released in our mouths when we chew, which then flow from the roof of the throat region to the nose. Congestion blocks this flow and impacts our appreciation of the flavor of food.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Respiratory Distress Syndrome ?
Answer: Signs and symptoms of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) usually occur at birth or within the first few hours that follow. They include:
                
Rapid, shallow breathing
                
Sharp pulling in of the chest below and between the ribs with each breath
                
Grunting sounds
                
Flaring of the nostrils
                
The infant also may have pauses in breathing that last for a few seconds. This condition is called apnea (AP-ne-ah).
                
Respiratory Distress Syndrome Complications
                
Depending on the severity of an infant's RDS, he or she may develop other medical problems.
                
Lung Complications
                
Lung complications may include a collapsed lung (atelectasis), leakage of air from the lung into the chest cavity (pneumothorax), and bleeding in the lung (hemorrhage).
                
Some of the life-saving treatments used for RDS may cause bronchopulmonary dysplasia, another breathing disorder.
                
Blood and Blood Vessel Complications
                
Infants who have RDS may develop sepsis, an infection of the bloodstream. This infection can be life threatening.
                
Lack of oxygen may prevent a fetal blood vessel called the ductus arteriosus from closing after birth as it should. This condition is called patent ductus arteriosus, or PDA.
                
The ductus arteriosus connects a lung artery to a heart artery. If it remains open, it can strain the heart and increase blood pressure in the lung arteries.
                
Other Complications
                
Complications of RDS also may include blindness and other eye problems and a bowel disease called necrotizing enterocolitis (EN-ter-o-ko-LI-tis). Infants who have severe RDS can develop kidney failure.
                
Some infants who have RDS develop bleeding in the brain. This bleeding can delay mental development. It also can cause mental retardation or cerebral palsy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Peutz-Jeghers syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Peutz-Jeghers syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to antiphospholipid syndrome ?
Answer: The genetic cause of antiphospholipid syndrome is unknown. This condition is associated with the presence of three abnormal immune proteins (antibodies) in the blood: lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin, and anti-B2 glycoprotein I. Antibodies normally bind to specific foreign particles and germs, marking them for destruction, but the antibodies in antiphospholipid syndrome attack normal human proteins. When these antibodies attach (bind) to proteins, the proteins change shape and bind to other molecules and receptors on the surface of cells. Binding to cells, particularly immune cells, turns on (activates) the blood clotting pathway and other immune responses.  The production of lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin, and anti-B2 glycoprotein I may coincide with exposure to foreign invaders, such as viruses and bacteria, that are similar to normal human proteins. Exposure to these foreign invaders may cause the body to produce antibodies to fight the infection, but because the invaders are so similar to the body's own proteins, the antibodies also attack the human proteins. Similar triggers may occur during pregnancy when a woman's physiology, particularly her immune system, adapts to accommodate the developing fetus. These changes during pregnancy may explain the high rate of affected females.  Certain genetic variations (polymorphisms) in a few genes have been found in people with antiphospholipid syndrome and may predispose individuals to produce the specific antibodies known to contribute to the formation of thromboses. However, the contribution of these genetic changes to the development of the condition is unclear.  People who test positive for all three antibodies but have not had a thrombosis or recurrent miscarriages are said to be antiphospholipid carriers. These individuals are at greater risk of developing a thrombosis than is the general population.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is triosephosphate isomerase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Behet disease ?
Answer: The cause of Behet disease is unknown. The condition probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors, most of which have not been identified. However, a particular variation in the HLA-B gene has been strongly associated with the risk of developing Behet disease.  The HLA-B gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays an important role in the immune system. The HLA-B gene is part of a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The HLA complex helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). The HLA-B gene has many different normal variations, allowing each person's immune system to react to a wide range of foreign proteins. A variation of the HLA-B gene called HLA-B51 increases the risk of developing Behet disease. Although many people with Behet disease have the HLA-B51 variation, most people with this version of the HLA-B gene never develop the disorder. It is unknown how HLA-B51 increases the risk of developing Behet disease.  Researchers have considered many other genetic and environmental factors as possible contributors to Behet disease. Studies have examined several genes related to immune system function, although no gene except HLA-B has been definitively associated with an increased risk of Behet disease. It appears likely that environmental factors, such as certain bacterial or viral infections, play a role in triggering the disease in people who are at risk. However, the influence of genetic and environmental factors on the development of this complex disorder remains unclear.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by benign chronic pemphigus ?
Answer: Benign chronic pemphigus is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is mucopolysaccharidosis type VII inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Arthrogryposis like disorder ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Arthrogryposis like disorder? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Arthrogryposis like disorder. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Gait disturbance 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Patellar aplasia 90% Talipes 50% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 7.5% Abnormality of the clavicle 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 7.5% Melanocytic nevus 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Skeletal muscle atrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Hemochromatosis type 4 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hemochromatosis type 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hemochromatosis type 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of iron homeostasis 90% Arthralgia 90% Generalized hyperpigmentation 90% Joint swelling 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Abdominal pain 50% Hepatic steatosis 50% Cirrhosis 7.5% Congenital hepatic fibrosis 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Parasites - Zoonotic Hookworm ?
Answer: There are many different species of hookworms, some are human parasites and some are animal parasites. People can be infected by larvae of animal hookworms, usually dog and cat hookworms. The most common result of animal hookworm infection is a skin condition called cutaneous larva migrans.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What causes Immune Thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: In most cases, an autoimmune response is thought to cause immune thrombocytopenia (ITP).
                
Normally, your immune system helps your body fight off infections and diseases. In ITP, however, your immune system attacks and destroys your body's platelets by mistake. Why this happens isn't known.
                
In some people, ITP may be linked to viral or bacterial infections, such as HIV, hepatitis C, or H. pylori.
                
Children who have acute (short-term) ITP often have had recent viral infections. These infections may "trigger" or set off the immune reaction that leads to ITP.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay, more commonly known as ARSACS, is a condition affecting muscle movement. People with ARSACS typically have abnormal tensing of the muscles (spasticity), difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia), muscle wasting (amyotrophy), involuntary eye movements (nystagmus), and speech difficulties (dysarthria). Other problems may include deformities of the fingers and feet, reduced sensation and weakness in the arms and legs (peripheral neuropathy), yellow streaks of fatty tissue in the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye (hypermyelination of the retina), and less commonly, leaks in one of the valves that control blood flow through the heart (mitral valve prolapse). An unsteady gait is the first symptom of ARSACS. It usually appears between the age of 12 months and 18 months, as toddlers are learning to walk. The signs and symptoms worsen over the years, with increased spasticity and ataxia of the arms and legs. In some cases spasticity disappears, but this apparent improvement is thought to be due to degeneration of nerves in the arms and legs. Most affected individuals require a wheelchair by the time they are in their thirties or forties.  This condition was first seen in people of the Charlevoix-Saguenay region of Quebec, Canada. The majority of people with ARSACS live in Quebec or have recent ancestors from Quebec. People with ARSACS have also been identified in Japan, Turkey, Tunisia, Spain, Italy, and Belgium. The signs and symptoms of ARSACS seen in other countries differ from those in Quebec. In people with ARSACS outside of Quebec, hypermyelination of the retina is seen less often, intelligence may be below normal, and symptoms tend to appear at a later age.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by supravalvular aortic stenosis ?
Answer: SVAS occurs in 1 in 20,000 newborns worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Kniest dysplasia ?
Answer: Kniest dysplasia is a disorder of bone growth characterized by short stature (dwarfism) with other skeletal abnormalities and problems with vision and hearing.  People with Kniest dysplasia are born with a short trunk and shortened arms and legs. Adult height ranges from 42 inches to 58 inches. Affected individuals have abnormally large joints that can cause pain and restrict movement, limiting physical activity. These joint problems can also lead to arthritis. Other skeletal features may include a rounded upper back that also curves to the side (kyphoscoliosis), severely flattened bones of the spine (platyspondyly), dumbbell-shaped bones in the arms and legs, long and knobby fingers, and an inward- and upward-turning foot (clubfoot).  Individuals with Kniest dysplasia have a round, flat face with bulging and wide-set eyes. Some affected infants are born with an opening in the roof of the mouth called a cleft palate. Infants may also have breathing problems due to weakness of the windpipe. Severe nearsightedness (myopia) and other eye problems are common in Kniest dysplasia. Some eye problems, such as tearing of the back lining of the eye (retinal detachment), can lead to blindness. Hearing loss resulting from recurrent ear infections is also possible.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Hepatitis B: What Asian and Pacific Islander Americans Need to Know ?
Answer: Hepatitis B is a liver disease spread through contact with blood, semen, or other body fluids from a person infected with the hepatitis B virus. The disease is most commonly spread from an infected mother to her infant at birth. Hepatitis B is also spread through sex, wound-to-wound contact, and contact with items that may have blood on them, such as shaving razors, toothbrushes, syringes, and tattoo and body piercing needles.
                
Hepatitis B is not spread through casual contact such as shaking hands or hugging; nor is it spread by sharing food or beverages, by sneezing and coughing, or through breastfeeding.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by familial male-limited precocious puberty ?
Answer: Familial male-limited precocious puberty is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Lethal congenital contracture syndrome 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Lethal congenital contracture syndrome 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Lethal congenital contracture syndrome 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 90% Hypertelorism 90% Short stature 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 90% Abnormal cortical bone morphology 50% Abnormality of the elbow 50% Abnormality of the ribs 50% Amniotic constriction ring 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Polyhydramnios 50% Recurrent fractures 50% Short neck 50% Slender long bone 50% Webbed neck 50% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 7.5% Abnormality of the amniotic fluid - Abnormality of the thorax - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Edema - Hypoplasia of the musculature - Neonatal death - Paucity of anterior horn motor neurons - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Widening of cervical spinal canal - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by mevalonate kinase deficiency ?
Answer: More than 200 people with mevalonate kinase deficiency have been reported worldwide; the majority of these individuals have HIDS.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for limb-girdle muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy:  - Cleveland Clinic  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy Overview  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 1A  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 1B  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 1C  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 1E  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 1F  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 1G  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 1H  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2A  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2B  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2D  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2E  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2F  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2G  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2J  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, type 2L  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy, type C1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy, type C2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy, type C3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy, type C4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy-dystroglycanopathy, type C5  - Johns Hopkins Medicine  - LGMD-Diagnosis.org   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose What I need to know about Hirschsprung Disease ?
Answer: HD is diagnosed based on symptoms and test results.
                
A doctor will perform a physical exam and ask questions about your childs bowel movements. HD is much less likely if parents can identify a time when their childs bowel habits were normal.
                
If HD is suspected, the doctor will do one or more tests.
                
X rays
                
An x ray is a black-and-white picture of the inside of the body. To make the large intestine show up better, the doctor may fill it with barium liquid. Barium liquid is inserted into the large intestine through the anus.
                
If HD is the problem, the last segment of the large intestine will look narrower than normal. Just before this narrow segment, the intestine will look bulged. The bulging is caused by blocked stool stretching the intestine.
                
Manometry
                
During manometry, the doctor inflates a small balloon inside the rectum. Normally, the rectal muscles will relax. If the muscles dont relax, HD may be the problem. This test is most often done in older children and adults.
                
Biopsy
                
Biopsy is the most accurate test for HD. The doctor removes a tiny piece of the large intestine and looks at it with a microscope. If nerve cells are missing, HD is the problem.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is myasthenia gravis inherited ?
Answer: In most cases, myasthenia gravis is not inherited and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. About 3 to 5 percent of affected individuals have other family members with myasthenia gravis or other autoimmune disorders, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Sjogren syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Sjogren syndrome inherited? A genetic predisposition to Sjogren syndrome has been suggested. Familial clustering of different autoimmune diseases as well as co-association of multiple autoimmune diseases in individuals have frequently been reported. Some studies have shown up to 30% of people with Sjogren syndrome have relatives with autoimmune diseases. While the relatives of people with Sjogren syndrome are at an increased risk of developing autoimmune diseases in general, they are not necessarily more likely to develop Sjogren syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Acrodysplasia scoliosis ?
Answer: Acrodysplasia scoliosis is a rare condition that has been reported in two brothers. The condition is characterized by scoliosis, brachydactyly (unusually short fingers and toes), spina bifida occulta, and carpal synostosis (fused bones of the wrist). The underlying genetic cause of the condition is unknown, but it appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?
Answer: Congenital NCL is the rarest type of NCL; approximately 10 cases have been described.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by chronic granulomatous disease ?
Answer: Chronic granulomatous disease is estimated to occur in 1 in 200,000 to 250,000 people worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, Strudwick type inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to X-linked creatine deficiency ?
Answer: Mutations in the SLC6A8 gene cause X-linked creatine deficiency. The SLC6A8 gene provides instructions for making a protein that transports the compound creatine into cells. Creatine is needed for the body to store and use energy properly.  SLC6A8 gene mutations impair the ability of the transporter protein to bring creatine into cells, resulting in a creatine shortage (deficiency). The effects of creatine deficiency are most severe in organs and tissues that require large amounts of energy, especially the brain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with ovarian germ cell tumors.     - Four types of standard treatment are used:          - Surgery     - Observation     - Chemotherapy      - Radiation therapy         - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.         - High-dose chemotherapy with bone marrow transplant     - New treatment options         - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with ovarian germ cell tumors.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with ovarian germ cell tumor. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Four types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery     Surgery is the most common treatment of ovarian germ cell tumor. A doctor may take out the cancer using one of the following types of surgery.             -  Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy: A surgical procedure to remove one ovary and one fallopian tube.      -  Total hysterectomy: A surgical procedure to remove the uterus, including the cervix. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through the vagina, the operation is called a vaginal hysterectomy. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through a large incision (cut) in the abdomen, the operation is called a total abdominal hysterectomy. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through a small incision (cut) in the abdomen using a laparoscope, the operation is called a total laparoscopic hysterectomy.     -  Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy: A surgical procedure to remove both ovaries and both fallopian tubes.     -  Tumor debulking: A surgical procedure in which as much of the tumor as possible is removed. Some tumors cannot be completely removed.            Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the operation, some patients may be offered chemotherapy or radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.    After chemotherapy for an ovarian germ cell tumor, a second-look laparotomy may be done. This is similar to the laparotomy that is done to find out the stage of the cancer. Second-look laparotomy is a surgical procedure to find out if tumor cells are left after primary treatment. During this procedure, the doctor will take samples of lymph nodes and other tissues in the abdomen to see if any cancer is left. This procedure is not done for dysgerminomas.       Observation     Observation is closely watching a patients condition without giving any treatment unless signs or symptoms appear or change.        Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Combination chemotherapy is treatment using more than one anticancer drug. The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    See Drugs Approved for Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer for more information.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat ovarian germ cell tumors.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with bone marrow transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with bone marrow transplant is a method of giving very high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.       New treatment options      Combination chemotherapy (the use of more than one anticancer drug) is being tested in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options By Stage
		            
		                
		                    Stage I Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors
		                    Treatment depends on whether the tumor is a dysgerminoma or another type of ovarian germ cell tumor.    Treatment of dysgerminoma may include the following:          -  Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy with or without lymphangiography or CT scan.     - Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by observation.     - Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by radiation therapy.    - Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by chemotherapy.        Treatment of other ovarian germ cell tumors may be either:          - unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by careful observation; or    - unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, sometimes followed by combination chemotherapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I ovarian germ cell tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage II Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors
		                    Treatment depends on whether the tumor is a dysgerminoma or another type of ovarian germ cell tumor.    Treatment of dysgerminoma may be either:          - total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by radiation therapy or combination chemotherapy; or     -  unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by chemotherapy.         Treatment of other ovarian germ cell tumors may include the following:          - Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by combination chemotherapy.     -  Second-look laparotomy (surgery done after primary treatment to see if tumor cells remain).    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage II ovarian germ cell tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage III Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors
		                    Treatment depends on whether the tumor is a dysgerminoma or another type of ovarian germ cell tumor.    Treatment of dysgerminoma may include the following:         - Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, with removal of as much of the cancer in the pelvis and abdomen as possible.    -  Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by chemotherapy.         Treatment of other ovarian germ cell tumors may include the following:          - Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, with removal of as much of the cancer in the pelvis and abdomen as possible. Chemotherapy will be given before and/or after surgery.     - Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by chemotherapy.     -  Second-look laparotomy (surgery done after primary treatment to see if tumor cells remain).    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.         Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III ovarian germ cell tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage IV Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors
		                    Treatment depends on whether the tumor is a dysgerminoma or another type of ovarian germ cell tumor.    Treatment of dysgerminoma may include the following:          - Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by chemotherapy, with removal of as much of the cancer in the pelvis and abdomen as possible.     -  Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by chemotherapy.         Treatment of other ovarian germ cell tumors may include the following:          - Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, with removal of as much of the cancer in the pelvis and abdomen as possible. Chemotherapy will be given before and/or after surgery.     - Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy followed by chemotherapy.    -  Second-look laparotomy (surgery done after primary treatment to see if tumor cells remain).    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.         Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage IV ovarian germ cell tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for Dandy-Walker Syndrome ?
Answer: Treatment for individuals with Dandy-Walker Syndrome generally consists of treating the associated problems, if needed. A surgical procedure called a shunt may be required to drain off excess fluid within the brain, which will reduce pressure inside the skull and improve symptoms. Treatment may also include various forms of therapy (physicial, occupational) and specialized education.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by VACTERL association ?
Answer: VACTERL association occurs in 1 in 10,000 to 40,000 newborns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Parasites - Lymphatic Filariasis ?
Answer: Patients currently infected with the parasite
    
Diethylcarbamazine (DEC) is the drug of choice in the United States. The drug kills the microfilaria and some of the adult worms. DEC has been used world-wide for more than 50 years. Because this infection is rare in the U.S., the drug is no longer approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and cannot be sold in the U.S. Physicians can obtain the medication from CDC after confirmed positive lab results. CDC gives the physicians the choice between 1 or 12-day treatment of DEC (6 mg/kg/day). One day treatment is generally as effective as the 12-day regimen. DEC is generally well tolerated. Side effects are in general limited and depend on the number of microfilariae in the blood. The most common side effects are dizziness, nausea, fever, headache, or pain in muscles or joints.
    
DEC should not be administered to patients who may also have onchocerciasis as  DEC can worsen onchocercal eye disease.  In patients with loiasis, DEC can cause serious adverse reactions, including encephalopathy and death. The risk and severity of the adverse reactions are related to Loa loa microfilarial density.
The drug ivermectin kills only the microfilariae, but not the adult worm; the adult worm is responsible for the pathology of lymphedema and hydrocele.
    
Some studies have shown adult worm killing with treatment with doxycycline (200mg/day for 46 weeks).  
    Patients with clinical symptoms
    
Lymphedema and elephantiasis are not indications for DEC treatment because most people with lymphedema are not actively infected with the filarial parasite.
    
To prevent the lymphedema from getting worse, patients should ask their physician for a referral to a lymphedema therapist so they can be informed about some basic principles of care such as hygiene, exercise and treatment of wounds.
    
Patients with hydrocele may have evidence of active infection, but typically do not improve clinically following treatment with DEC. The treatment for hydrocele is surgery.
    
More on: Resources for Health Professionals: Treatment
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the symptoms of Schisis association ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Schisis association? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Schisis association. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anencephaly 90% Cleft palate 90% Non-midline cleft lip 90% Omphalocele 90% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 50% Encephalocele 50% Spina bifida 50% Microcephaly 7.5% Micromelia 7.5% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 7.5% Tracheoesophageal fistula 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: Lewy bodies are unusual deposits or clumps of the brain protein alpha-synuclein, along with other proteins, which are seen upon microscopic examination of the brain. Many brain cells of people with Parkinson's disease contain Lewy bodies. Researchers do not yet know why Lewy bodies form or what role they play in the development of Parkinson's disease. The clumps may prevent the cell from functioning normally, or they may actually be helpful, perhaps by keeping harmful proteins "locked up" so that the cells can function.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Familial Periodic Paralyses ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on neuromuscular disorders such as the familial periodic paralyses. These studies are aimed at increasing knowledge about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is estimated to be 1 in 200,000 to 500,000 males in the United States. This condition rarely affects females.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dysautonomia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on dysautonomia. This research aims to discover ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, prevent these disorders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Takayasu arteritis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Takayasu arteritis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Takayasu arteritis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of temperature regulation 90% Aneurysm 90% Hyperhidrosis 90% Hypertensive crisis 90% Vasculitis 90% Weight loss 90% Abnormal pattern of respiration 50% Abnormality of the aortic valve 50% Anemia 50% Anorexia 50% Arthritis 50% Chest pain 50% Coronary artery disease 50% Dilatation of the ascending aorta 50% Gangrene 50% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 50% Inflammatory abnormality of the eye 50% Migraine 50% Muscle weakness 50% Myalgia 50% Pulmonary hypertension 50% Seizures 50% Skin ulcer 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of the endocardium 7.5% Amaurosis fugax 7.5% Arthralgia 7.5% Cerebral ischemia 7.5% Gastrointestinal infarctions 7.5% Hemoptysis 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% Retinopathy 7.5% Arteritis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Hearing Loss ?
Answer: Approximately 17 percent, or 36 million, of American adults say that they have some degree of hearing loss. Hearing loss is a common condition in older adults. Roughly one-third of Americans 65 to 74 years of age and 47 percent of those 75 and older have hearing loss.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Hemochromatosis type 1 ?
Answer: Hemochromatosis type 1 is a disease in which too much iron builds up in the body.  This extra iron is toxic to the body and can damage the organs. Hemochromatosis type 1 is the most common cause of hereditary hemochromatosis. Symptoms of this condition typically begin in adulthood. Early symptoms of hemochromatosis are nonspecific and may include fatigue, joint pain, abdominal pain, and loss of sex drive. Later signs and symptoms can include arthritis, liver disease, diabetes, heart abnormalities, and skin discoloration. Hemochromatosis type 1 is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the HFE gene. Hemochromatosis may be aquired or inherited. Hereditary hemochromatosis is classified by type depending on the age of onset and other factors such as genetic cause and mode of inheritance. To learn more about other types of hereditary hemochromatosis click on the disease names below: Hemochromatosis type 2 Hemochromatosis type 3 Hemochromatosis type 4 There is also a neonatal form of hemochromatosis: Neonatal hemochromatosis
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Multiple System Atrophy ?
Answer: Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by symptoms of autonomic nervous system failure such as fainting spells and bladder control problems, combined with motor control symptoms such as tremor, rigidity, and loss of muscle coordination. MSA affects both men and women primarily in their 50s. Although what causes MSA is unknown, the disorder's symptoms reflect the loss of nerve cells in several different areas in the brain and spinal cord that control the autonomic nervous system and coordinate muscle movements. The loss of nerve cells may be due to the buildup of a protein called alpha-synuclein in the cells that support nerve cells in the brain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How to diagnose Tietze syndrome ?
Answer: How is Tietze syndrome diagnosed? Tietze syndrome is a diagnosis of exclusion. This means that a diagnosis is made in people with chest pain and swelling of the cartilage that joins the upper ribs to the breastbone (costochondral junction) after other conditions with similar signs and symptoms have been ruled out. A thorough physical exam and various tests (i.e. electrocardiogram, x-ray, CT scan) may be necessary to exclude other conditions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to glycogen storage disease type V ?
Answer: Mutations in the PYGM gene cause GSDV. The PYGM gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called myophosphorylase. This enzyme is found only in muscle cells, where it breaks down glycogen into a simpler sugar called glucose-1-phosphate. Additional steps convert glucose-1-phosphate into glucose, a simple sugar that is the main energy source for most cells.  PYGM gene mutations prevent myophosphorylase from breaking down glycogen effectively. As a result, muscle cells cannot produce enough energy, so muscles become easily fatigued. Reduced energy production in muscle cells leads to the major features of GSDV.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Chiari Malformation ?
Answer: Many people with Type I CM are asymptomatic and do not know they have the condition. Many individuals with the more severe types of CM and have surgery see a reduction in their symptoms and/or prolonged periods of relative stability, although paralysis is generally permanent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Osteoporosis ?
Answer: If you have osteoporosis, ask your doctor which activities are safe for you. If you have low bone mass, experts recommend that you protect your spine by avoiding exercises or activities that flex, bend, or twist it. Furthermore, you should avoid high-impact exercise to lower the risk of breaking a bone. You also might want to consult with an exercise specialist to learn the proper progression of activity, how to stretch and strengthen muscles safely, and how to correct poor posture habits. An exercise specialist should have a degree in exercise physiology, physical education, physical therapy, or a similar specialty. Be sure to ask if he or she is familiar with the special needs of people with osteoporosis. If you have health problemssuch as heart trouble, high blood pressure, diabetes, or obesityor if you aren't used to energetic activity, check with your doctor before you begin a regular exercise program.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is GRACILE syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase deficiency ?
Answer: AMACR deficiency is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown. At least 10 cases have been described in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Graves' Disease ?
Answer: - Graves disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism in the United States.  - In Graves disease, the immune system stimulates the thyroid gland to make too much thyroid hormone.  - Common symptoms of hyperthyroidism include nervousness or irritability, fatigue or muscle weakness, heat intolerance, trouble sleeping, hand tremors, rapid and irregular heartbeat, frequent bowel movements or diarrhea, weight loss, and goiter.  - People with Graves disease may also have bulging eyes, a condition called Graves ophthalmopathy (GO).  - Graves disease is most often treated with radioiodine therapy, which gradually destroys the cells that make up the thyroid gland. Anti-thyroid medications and surgery to remove the thyroid are sometimes used.  - The eye problems associated with Graves disease may require separate treatment.  - A pregnant woman who has been treated with surgery or radioactive iodine prior to becoming pregnant should inform her health care provider so her baby can be monitored for thyroid-related problems later in the pregnancy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome ?
Answer: Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome is a genetic disorder characterized by severe insulin resistance. Insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas, regulates blood sugar levels by promoting the movement of glucose into cells for energy production or into the liver and fat cells for storage. Symptoms of Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome may include intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation, hypertrophy of muscle and fat tissues, abnormalities of the head and face, abnormalities of the teeth and nails, and skin abnormalities such as acanthosis nigricans. Additional symptoms may also be present. Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is difficult and may include high doses of insulin and/or recombinant insulin-like growth factor.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Overweight and Obesity ?
Answer: Lack of Energy Balance
                
A lack of energy balance most often causes overweight and obesity. Energy balance means that your energy IN equals your energy OUT.
                
Energy IN is the amount of energy or calories you get from food and drinks. Energy OUT is the amount of energy your body uses for things like breathing, digesting, and being physically active.
                
To maintain a healthy weight, your energy IN and OUT don't have to balance exactly every day. It's the balance over time that helps you maintain a healthy weight.
                
The same amount of energy IN and energy OUT over time = weight stays the same
                
More energy IN than energy OUT over time = weight gain
                
More energy OUT than energy IN over time = weight loss
                
Overweight and obesity happen over time when you take in more calories than you use.
                
Other Causes
                
An Inactive Lifestyle
                
Many Americans aren't very physically active. One reason for this is that many people spend hours in front of TVs and computers doing work, schoolwork, and leisure activities. In fact, more than 2 hours a day of regular TV viewing time has been linked to overweight and obesity.
                
Other reasons for not being active include: relying on cars instead of walking, fewer physical demands at work or at home because of modern technology and conveniences, and lack of physical education classes in schools.
                
People who are inactive are more likely to gain weight because they don't burn the calories that they take in from food and drinks. An inactive lifestyle also raises your risk for coronary heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, colon cancer, and other health problems.
                
Environment
                
Our environment doesn't support healthy lifestyle habits; in fact, it encourages obesity. Some reasons include:
                
Lack of neighborhood sidewalks and safe places for recreation. Not having area parks, trails, sidewalks, and affordable gyms makes it hard for people to be physically active.
                
Work schedules. People often say that they don't have time to be physically active because of long work hours and time spent commuting.
                
Oversized food portions. Americans are exposed to huge food portions in restaurants, fast food places, gas stations, movie theaters, supermarkets, and even at home. Some of these meals and snacks can feed two or more people. Eating large portions means too much energy IN. Over time, this will cause weight gain if it isn't balanced with physical activity.
                
Lack of access to healthy foods. Some people don't live in neighborhoods that have supermarkets that sell healthy foods, such as fresh fruits and vegetables. Or, for some people, these healthy foods are too costly.
                
Food advertising. Americans are surrounded by ads from food companies. Often children are the targets of advertising for high-calorie, high-fat snacks and sugary drinks. The goal of these ads is to sway people to buy these high-calorie foods, and often they do.
                
Genes and Family History
                
Studies of identical twins who have been raised apart show that genes have a strong influence on a person's weight. Overweight and obesity tend to run in families. Your chances of being overweight are greater if one or both of your parents are overweight or obese.
                
Your genes also may affect the amount of fat you store in your body and where on your body you carry the extra fat. Because families also share food and physical activity habits, a link exists between genes and the environment.
                
Children adopt the habits of their parents. A child who has overweight parents who eat high-calorie foods and are inactive will likely become overweight too. However, if the family adopts healthy food and physical activity habits, the child's chance of being overweight or obese is reduced.
                
Health Conditions
                
Some hormone problems may cause overweight and obesity, such as underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism), Cushing's syndrome, and polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS).
                
Underactive thyroid is a condition in which the thyroid gland doesn't make enough thyroid hormone. Lack of thyroid hormone will slow down your metabolism and cause weight gain. You'll also feel tired and weak.
                
Cushing's syndrome is a condition in which the body's adrenal glands make too much of the hormone cortisol. Cushing's syndrome also can develop if a person takes high doses of certain medicines, such as prednisone, for long periods.
                
People who have Cushing's syndrome gain weight, have upper-body obesity, a rounded face, fat around the neck, and thin arms and legs.
                
PCOS is a condition that affects about 510 percent of women of childbearing age. Women who have PCOS often are obese, have excess hair growth, and have reproductive problems and other health issues. These problems are caused by high levels of hormones called androgens.
                
Medicines
                
Certain medicines may cause you to gain weight. These medicines include some corticosteroids, antidepressants, and seizure medicines.
                
These medicines can slow the rate at which your body burns calories, increase your appetite, or cause your body to hold on to extra water. All of these factors can lead to weight gain.
                
Emotional Factors
                
Some people eat more than usual when they're bored, angry, or stressed. Over time, overeating will lead to weight gain and may cause overweight or obesity.
                
Smoking
                
Some people gain weight when they stop smoking. One reason is that food often tastes and smells better after quitting smoking.
                
Another reason is because nicotine raises the rate at which your body burns calories, so you burn fewer calories when you stop smoking. However, smoking is a serious health risk, and quitting is more important than possible weight gain.
                
Age
                
As you get older, you tend to lose muscle, especially if you're less active. Muscle loss can slow down the rate at which your body burns calories. If you don't reduce your calorie intake as you get older, you may gain weight.
                
Midlife weight gain in women is mainly due to aging and lifestyle, but menopause also plays a role. Many women gain about 5 pounds during menopause and have more fat around the waist than they did before.
                
Pregnancy
                
During pregnancy, women gain weight to support their babies growth and development. After giving birth, some women find it hard to lose the weight. This may lead to overweight or obesity, especially after a few pregnancies.
                
Lack of Sleep
                
Research shows that lack of sleep increases the risk of obesity. For example, one study of teenagers showed that with each hour of sleep lost, the odds of becoming obese went up. Lack of sleep increases the risk of obesity in other age groups as well.
                
People who sleep fewer hours also seem to prefer eating foods that are higher in calories and carbohydrates, which can lead to overeating, weight gain, and obesity.
                
Sleep helps maintain a healthy balance of the hormones that make you feel hungry (ghrelin) or full (leptin). When you don't get enough sleep, your level of ghrelin goes up and your level of leptin goes down. This makes you feel hungrier than when you're well-rested.
                
Sleep also affects how your body reacts to insulin, the hormone that controls your blood glucose (sugar) level. Lack of sleep results in a higher than normal blood sugar level, which may increase your risk for diabetes.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency article.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Chiari Malformation ?
Answer: Chiari malformations (CMs) are structural defects in the cerebellum. The cerebellum is the part of the brain that controls balance. With CM, brain tissue extends into the spinal canal. It can happen when part of the skull is too small, which pushes the brain tissue down. There are several types of CM. One type often happens in children who have neural tube defects. Some types cause no symptoms and don't need treatment. If you have symptoms, they may include       - Neck pain    - Balance problems    - Numbness or other abnormal feelings in the arms or legs    - Dizziness    - Vision problems    - Difficulty swallowing    - Poor hand coordination       Doctors diagnose CM using imaging tests. Medicines may ease some symptoms, such as pain. Surgery is the only treatment available to correct or stop the progression of nerve damage.    NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What causes Chiari malformation type 1 ?
Answer: What causes Chiari malformation type 1? Primary or congenital Chiari malformations are caused by structural defects in the brain and spinal cord that occur during fetal development. The underlying cause of the structural defects are not completely understood, but may involve genetic mutations or lack of proper vitamins or nutrients in the maternal diet. Less frequently, Chiari malformation type 1 is acquired after birth. Causes of acquired Chiari malformation type 1 involve the excessive draining of spinal fluid from the lumbar or thoracic areas of the spine as a result of injury, exposure to harmful substances, or infection. Click here to view a diagram of the spine.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with osteosarcoma or malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of bone.    - Children with osteosarcoma or MFH should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating cancer in children.     - Treatment for osteosarcoma or malignant fibrous histiocytoma may cause side effects.    - Four types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery     - Chemotherapy     - Radiation therapy     - Samarium        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.          - Targeted therapy         - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with osteosarcoma or malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of bone.
                    Different types of treatment are available for children with osteosarcoma or malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of bone. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment.   Because cancer in children is rare, taking part in a clinical trial should be considered. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Children with osteosarcoma or MFH should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating cancer in children.
                    Treatment will be overseen by a pediatric oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating children with cancer. The pediatric oncologist works with other pediatric health care providers who are experts in treating osteosarcoma and MFH and who specialize in certain areas of medicine. These may include the following specialists:         -  Pediatrician.    - Orthopedic surgeon.    -  Radiation oncologist.    -  Rehabilitation specialist.    -  Pediatric nurse specialist.    -  Social worker.    -  Psychologist.
                
                
                    Treatment for osteosarcoma or malignant fibrous histiocytoma may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects that begin during treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.   Side effects from cancer treatment that begin after treatment and continue for months or years are called late effects. Late effects of cancer treatment may include the following:         - Physical problems.    - Changes in mood, feelings, thinking, learning, or memory.    -  Second cancers (new types of cancer).        Some late effects may be treated or controlled. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about the effects cancer treatment can have on your child. (See the PDQ summary on Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer for more information).
                
                
                    Four types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery     Surgery to remove the entire tumor will be done when possible. Chemotherapy may be given before surgery to make the tumor smaller. This is called neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Chemotherapy is given so less bone tissue needs to be removed and there are fewer problems after surgery.     The following types of surgery may be done:            -  Wide local excision: Surgery to remove the cancer and some healthy tissue around it.     -  Limb-sparing surgery: Removal of the tumor in a limb (arm or leg) without amputation, so the use and appearance of the limb is saved. Most patients with osteosarcoma in a limb can be treated with limb-sparing surgery. The tumor is removed by wide local excision. Tissue and bone that are removed may be replaced with a graft using tissue and bone taken from another part of the patient's body, or with an implant such as artificial bone. If a fracture is found at diagnosis or during chemotherapy before surgery, limb-sparing surgery may still be possible in some cases. If the surgeon is not able to remove all of the tumor and enough healthy tissue around it, an amputation may be done.     -  Amputation: Surgery to remove part or all of an arm or leg. This may be done when it is not possible to remove all of the tumor in limb-sparing surgery. The patient may be fitted with a prosthesis (artificial limb) after amputation.     -  Rotationplasty: Surgery to remove the tumor and the knee joint. The part of the leg that remains below the knee is then attached to the part of the leg that remains above the knee, with the foot facing backward and the ankle acting as a knee. A prosthesis may then be attached to the foot.           Studies have shown that survival is the same whether the first surgery done is a limb-sparing surgery or an amputation.    Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, patients are also given chemotherapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left in the area where the tumor was removed or that have spread to other parts of the body. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Chemotherapy    Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Combination chemotherapy is the use of more than one anticancer drug. The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    In the treatment of osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytosis of bone, chemotherapy is usually given before and after surgery to remove the primary tumor.    See Drugs Approved for Bone Cancer for more information.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    Osteosarcoma and MFH cells are not killed easily by external radiation therapy. It may be used when a small amount of cancer is left after surgery or used together with other treatments.       Samarium     Samarium is a radioactive drug that targets areas where bone cells are growing, such as tumor cells in bone. It helps relieve pain caused by cancer in the bone and it also kills blood cells in the bone marrow. It also is used to treat osteosarcoma that has come back after treatment in a different bone.    Treatment with samarium may be followed by stem cell transplant. Before treatment with samarium, stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient and are frozen and stored. After treatment with samarium is complete, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy      Targeted therapy is a treatment that uses drugs or other substances to find and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Kinase inhibitor therapy and monoclonal antibody therapy are types of targeted therapy being studied in clinical trials for osteosarcoma.     Kinase inhibitor therapy blocks a protein needed for cancer cells to divide. Sorafenib is a type of kinase inhibitor therapy being studied for the treatment of recurrent osteosarcoma.     Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory, from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells. Denosumab, dinutuximab, and glembatumumab are monoclonal antibodies being studied for the treatment of recurrent osteosarcoma.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your child's condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options for Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone
		            
		                
		                    Localized Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone
		                    Treatment may include the following:         -  Surgery. Combination chemotherapy is usually given before and after surgery.    - Surgery followed by radiation therapy when the tumor cannot be completely removed by surgery.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with localized osteosarcoma and localized childhood malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Metastatic Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone
		                    Lung Metastasis    When osteosarcoma or malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) spreads, it usually spreads to the lung. Treatment of osteosarcoma and MFH with lung metastasis may include the following:         -  Combination chemotherapy followed by surgery to remove the primary cancer and the cancer that has spread to the lung.         Bone Metastasis or Bone with Lung Metastasis    Osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma may spread to a distant bone and/or the lung. Treatment may include the following:         - Combination chemotherapy followed by surgery to remove the primary tumor and the cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. More chemotherapy is given after surgery.    - Surgery to remove the primary tumor followed by chemotherapy and surgery to remove cancer that has spread to other parts of the body.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with metastatic osteosarcoma and metastatic childhood malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Recurrent Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone
		                    Treatment of recurrent osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone may include the following:         -  Surgery to remove the tumor with or without chemotherapy.    -  Samarium with or without stem cell transplant using the patient's own stem cells, as palliative treatment to relieve pain and improve the quality of life.    - A clinical trial of new types of treatment for patients whose cancer cannot be removed by surgery. These may include targeted therapy such as kinase inhibitor therapy or monoclonal antibody therapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent osteosarcoma and recurrent childhood malignant fibrous histiocytoma of bone. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Bone dysplasia lethal Holmgren type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Bone dysplasia lethal Holmgren type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Bone dysplasia lethal Holmgren type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the femur 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Micromelia 90% Narrow chest 90% Short stature 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Weight loss 90% Abnormal diaphysis morphology 50% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 50% Abnormality of the elbow 50% Abnormality of the metaphyses 50% Abnormality of the thumb 50% Anteverted nares 50% Depressed nasal ridge 50% Frontal bossing 50% Hearing abnormality 50% High forehead 50% Joint dislocation 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Malar flattening 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Short neck 50% Abnormality of the skin 7.5% Anemia 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Diarrhea 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Hernia 7.5% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 7.5% Nausea and vomiting 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Recurrent respiratory infections 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Talipes 7.5% Thickened nuchal skin fold 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bell-shaped thorax - Short ribs - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Perrault syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Perrault syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Perrault Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Gonadal dysgenesis with auditory dysfunction, autosomal recessive inheritance  - Genetic Testing Registry: Perrault syndrome 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Perrault syndrome 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Perrault syndrome 5   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by ataxia with vitamin E deficiency ?
Answer: Ataxia with vitamin E deficiency is a rare condition; however, its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Olivopontocerebellar Atrophy ?
Answer: There is no cure for OPCA. The disorder is slowly progressive with death usually occurring approximately 20 years after onset.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is Essential tremor inherited ?
Answer: Is essential tremor inherited? About half of all cases of essential tremor appear to occur because of a genetic mutation. This is referred to as familial tremor. In these cases, essential tremor appears to be passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern varies. In many affected families, the condition appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In other families, the inheritance pattern is unclear. Essential tremor may also appear in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In some families, there are individuals who have essential tremor while others have other movement disorders, such as involuntary muscle tensing (dystonia). The potential genetic connection between essential tremor and other movement disorders is an active area of research..
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Kidney Disease ?
Answer: When your kidneys fail, they are no longer able to filter blood and remove waste from your body well enough to maintain health. Kidney failure causes harmful waste and excess fluid to build up in your body. Your blood pressure may rise, and your hands and feet may swell. Since the kidneys are not working well, the goal is to find treatments that can replace kidney function in order to maintain health. There are two main options for this: dialysis and transplantation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Peripheral Arterial Disease ?
Answer: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) happens when there is a narrowing of the blood vessels outside of your heart. The cause of PAD is atherosclerosis. This happens when plaque builds up on the walls of the arteries that supply blood to the arms and legs. Plaque is a substance made up of fat and cholesterol. It causes the arteries to narrow or become blocked. This can reduce or stop blood flow, usually to the legs. If severe enough, blocked blood flow can cause tissue death and can sometimes lead to amputation of the foot or leg.    The main risk factor for PAD is smoking. Other risk factors include older age and diseases like diabetes, high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, heart disease, and stroke.    Many people who have PAD don't have any symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may include       - Pain, numbness, achiness, or heaviness in the leg muscles. This happens when walking or climbing stairs.    - Weak or absent pulses in the legs or feet    - Sores or wounds on the toes, feet, or legs that heal slowly, poorly, or not at all    - A pale or bluish color to the skin    - A lower temperature in one leg than the other leg    - Poor nail growth on the toes and decreased hair growth on the legs    - Erectile dysfunction, especially among men who have diabetes       PAD can increase your risk of heart attack, stroke, and transient ischemic attack.    Doctors diagnose PAD with a physical exam and heart and imaging tests. Treatments include lifestyle changes, medicines, and sometimes surgery. Lifestyle changes include dietary changes, exercise, and efforts to lower high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How to diagnose Peripheral Artery Disease ?
Answer: Peripheral artery disease (P.A.D.) is diagnosed based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results.
                
P.A.D. often is diagnosed after symptoms are reported. A correct diagnosis is important because people who have P.A.D. are at higher risk for coronary heart disease (CHD), heart attack, stroke, and transient ischemic attack ("mini-stroke"). If you have P.A.D., your doctor also may want to check for signs of these diseases and conditions.
                
Specialists Involved
                
Primary care doctors, such as internists and family doctors, may treat people who have mild P.A.D. For more advanced P.A.D., a vascular specialist may be involved. This is a doctor who specializes in treating blood vessel diseases and conditions.
                
A cardiologist also may be involved in treating people who have P.A.D. Cardiologists treat heart problems, such as CHD and heart attack, which often affect people who have P.A.D.
                
Medical and Family Histories
                
Your doctor may ask:
                
Whether you have any risk factors for P.A.D. For example, he or she may ask whether you smoke or have diabetes.
                
About your symptoms, including any symptoms that occur when walking, exercising, sitting, standing, or climbing.
                
About your diet.
                
About any medicines you take, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines.
                
Whether anyone in your family has a history of heart or blood vessel diseases.
                
Physical Exam
                
During the physical exam, your doctor will look for signs of P.A.D. He or she may check the blood flow in your legs or feet to see whether you have weak or absent pulses.
                
Your doctor also may check the pulses in your leg arteries for an abnormal whooshing sound called a bruit. He or she can hear this sound with a stethoscope. A bruit may be a warning sign of a narrowed or blocked artery.
                
Your doctor may compare blood pressure between your limbs to see whether the pressure is lower in the affected limb. He or she also may check for poor wound healing or any changes in your hair, skin, or nails that may be signs of P.A.D.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
Ankle-Brachial Index
                
A simple test called an ankle-brachial index (ABI) often is used to diagnose P.A.D. The ABI compares blood pressure in your ankle to blood pressure in your arm. This test shows how well blood is flowing in your limbs.
                
ABI can show whether P.A.D. is affecting your limbs, but it won't show which blood vessels are narrowed or blocked.
                
A normal ABI result is 1.0 or greater (with a range of 0.90 to 1.30). The test takes about 10 to 15 minutes to measure both arms and both ankles. This test may be done yearly to see whether P.A.D. is getting worse.
                
Ankle-Brachial Index
                

                
Doppler Ultrasound
                
A Doppler ultrasound looks at blood flow in the major arteries and veins in the limbs. During this test, a handheld device is placed on your body and passed back and forth over the affected area. A computer converts sound waves into a picture of blood flow in the arteries and veins.
                
The results of this test can show whether a blood vessel is blocked. The results also can help show the severity of P.A.D.
                
Treadmill Test
                
A treadmill test can show the severity of symptoms and the level of exercise that brings them on. You'll walk on a treadmill for this test. This shows whether you have any problems during normal walking.
                
You may have an ABI test before and after the treadmill test. This will help compare blood flow in your arms and legs before and after exercise.
                
Magnetic Resonance Angiogram
                
A magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA) uses magnetic and radio wave energy to take pictures of your blood vessels. This test is a type of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
                
An MRA can show the location and severity of a blocked blood vessel. If you have a pacemaker, man-made joint, stent, surgical clips, mechanical heart valve, or other metallic devices in your body, you might not be able to have an MRA. Ask your doctor whether an MRA is an option for you.
                
Arteriogram
                
An arteriogram provides a "road map" of the arteries. Doctors use this test to find the exact location of a blocked artery.
                
For this test, dye is injected through a needle or catheter (tube) into one of your arteries. This may make you feel mildly flushed. After the dye is injected, an x ray is taken. The xray can show the location, type, and extent of the blockage in the artery.
                
Some doctors use a newer method of arteriogram that uses tiny ultrasound cameras. These cameras take pictures of the insides of the blood vessels. This method is called intravascular ultrasound.
                
Blood Tests
                
Your doctor may recommend blood tests to check for P.A.D. risk factors. For example, blood tests can help diagnose conditions such as diabetes and high blood cholesterol.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Pol III-related leukodystrophy ?
Answer: Pol III-related leukodystrophy is caused by mutations in the POLR3A or POLR3B gene. These genes provide instructions for making the two largest parts (subunits) of an enzyme called RNA polymerase III. This enzyme is involved in the production (synthesis) of ribonucleic acid (RNA), a chemical cousin of DNA. The RNA polymerase III enzyme attaches (binds) to DNA and synthesizes RNA in accordance with the instructions carried by the DNA, a process called transcription. RNA polymerase III helps synthesize several forms of RNA, including ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and transfer RNA (tRNA). Molecules of rRNA and tRNA assemble protein building blocks (amino acids) into working proteins; this process is essential for the normal functioning and survival of cells.  Researchers suggest that mutations in the POLR3A or POLR3B gene may impair the ability of subunits of the RNA polymerase III enzyme to assemble properly or result in an RNA polymerase III with impaired ability to bind to DNA. Reduced function of the RNA polymerase III molecule likely affects development and function of many parts of the body, including the nervous system and the teeth, but the relationship between POLR3A and POLR3B gene mutations and the specific signs and symptoms of Pol III-related leukodystrophy is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: Health care providers may be able to diagnose kidney dysplasia during a womans pregnancy using a fetal ultrasound, also called a fetal sonogram. Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. Fetal ultrasound is a test done during pregnancy to create images of the fetus in the womb. A specially trained technician performs the procedure in a health care providers office, an outpatient center, or a hospital, and an obstetrician or a radiologist interprets the images. An obstetrician is a doctor who specializes in pregnancy and childbirth. A radiologist is a doctor who specializes in medical imaging. The patientin this case, the fetus motherdoes not need anesthesia for this procedure. The images can show defects in the fetus kidneys and other parts of the urinary tract.
                
Health care providers do not always diagnose kidney dysplasia before a baby is born. After birth, health care providers often diagnose kidney dysplasia during an evaluation of the child for a UTI or another medical condition. A health care provider uses ultrasound to diagnose kidney dysplasia after the baby is born.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is Schwannomatosis inherited ?
Answer: Is schwannomatosis inherited? Approximately 15% percent of all schwannomatosis cases are thought to be inherited. In these cases, the condition is thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with highly variable expressivity and reduced penetrance. This means that a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell to have a genetic predisposition to the tumors associated with schwannomatosis. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. People with an inherited form of schwannomatosis have a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing the condition on to the next generation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome ?
Answer: During the prodrome and vomiting phases of cyclic vomiting syndrome, a person will generally take in little or no nutrition by mouth. During the recovery phase, the person may be quite hungry as soon as the vomiting stops. As eating resumes, a person or his or her family should watch for the return of nausea. In some cases, a person can start with clear liquids and proceed slowly to a regular diet.
                
During the well phase, a balanced diet and regular meals are important. People should avoid any trigger foods and foods with additives. Eating small, carbohydrate-containing snacks between meals, before exercise, and at bedtime may help prevent future attacks. A health care provider will assist with planning a return to a regular diet.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Churg Strauss syndrome ?
Answer: Churg Strauss syndrome is a condition characterized by asthma, high levels of eosinophils (a type of white blood cell that helps fight infection), and inflammation of small to medium sized blood vessels (vasculitis). The inflamed vessels can affect various organ systems including the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, skin, heart and nervous system. The exact cause of Churg Strauss syndrome is unknown, but it is thought to be an autoimmune disorder. Treatment may involve the use of glucocorticoids and/or other immunosuppressive therapies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for critical congenital heart disease ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of critical congenital heart disease:  - Baby's First Test: Critical Congenital Heart Disease  - Boston Children's Hospital  - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Screening for Critical Congenital Heart Defects  - Children's Hospital of Philadelphia  - Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center  - Cleveland Clinic  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital heart disease  - Genetic Testing Registry: Ebstein's anomaly  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hypoplastic left heart syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hypoplastic left heart syndrome 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Persistent truncus arteriosus  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect  - Genetic Testing Registry: Tetralogy of Fallot  - Genetic Testing Registry: Transposition of the great arteries  - Genetic Testing Registry: Transposition of the great arteries, dextro-looped 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Transposition of the great arteries, dextro-looped 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Tricuspid atresia  - Screening, Technology, and Research in Genetics (STAR-G)  - University of California, San Francisco Fetal Treatment Center: Congenital Heart Disease   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Decreased body weight 90% Delayed eruption of teeth 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Downturned corners of mouth 90% Hypohidrosis 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Long philtrum 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Ptosis 90% Short neck 90% Thin vermilion border 90% Anteverted nares 50% Coarse facial features 50% Frontal bossing 50% Hypertelorism 50% Short nose 50% Telecanthus 50% Upslanted palpebral fissure 50% Abnormality of the soft palate 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% Anal atresia - Anal stenosis - Anteriorly placed anus - Aortic valve stenosis - Aplasia of the uterus - Atria septal defect - Bifid uvula - Broad foot - Broad palm - Cataract - Cleft palate - Clinodactyly of the 5th finger - Coarctation of aorta - Congenital diaphragmatic hernia - Congenital hip dislocation - Cryptorchidism - Depressed nasal bridge - Epicanthus - Flexion contracture - Full cheeks - Hearing impairment - Hyperpigmented streaks - Hypertonia - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Hypopigmented streaks - Hypoplastic labia majora - Hypospadias - Inguinal hernia - Intellectual disability, profound - Intestinal malrotation - Kyphoscoliosis - Macrocephaly - Macroglossia - Macrotia - Mesomelia - Mesomelic/rhizomelic limb shortening - Obesity - Omphalocele - Patent ductus arteriosus - Postaxial foot polydactyly - Postaxial hand polydactyly - Postnatal microcephaly - Prominent forehead - Proptosis - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Renal cyst - Renal dysplasia - Rhizomelia - Seizures - Short phalanx of finger - Short toe - Single transverse palmar crease - Small scrotum - Somatic mosaicism - Sparse anterior scalp hair - Sparse eyebrow - Sparse eyelashes - Stenosis of the external auditory canal - Stillbirth - Supernumerary nipple - Umbilical hernia - Ventricular septal defect - Webbed neck - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Freiberg's disease ?
Answer: Freiberg's disease is rare condition that primarily affects the second or third metatarsal (the long bones of the foot). Although people of all ages can be affected by this condition, Freiberg's disease is most commonly diagnosed during adolescence through the second decade of life. Common signs and symptoms include pain and stiffness in the front of the foot, which often leads to a limp. Affected people may also experience swelling, limited range of motion, and tenderness of the affected foot. Symptoms are generally triggered by weight-bearing activities, including walking. The exact underlying cause of Freiberg's disease is currently unknown. Treatment depends on many factors, including the severity of condition; the signs and symptoms present; and the age of the patient.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for familial exudative vitreoretinopathy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Familial Exudative Vitreoretinopathy, Autosomal Dominant  - Gene Review: Gene Review: NDP-Related Retinopathies  - Genetic Testing Registry: Exudative vitreoretinopathy 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Exudative vitreoretinopathy 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Exudative vitreoretinopathy 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy, X-linked   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Leydig cell hypoplasia ?
Answer: Mutations in the LHCGR gene cause Leydig cell hypoplasia. The LHCGR gene provides instructions for making a protein called the luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin receptor. Receptor proteins have specific sites into which certain other proteins, called ligands, fit like keys into locks. Together, ligands and their receptors trigger signals that affect cell development and function.  The protein produced from the LHCGR gene acts as a receptor for two ligands: luteinizing hormone and a similar hormone called chorionic gonadotropin. The receptor allows the body to respond appropriately to these hormones. In males, chorionic gonadotropin stimulates the development of cells in the testes called Leydig cells, and luteinizing hormone triggers these cells to produce androgens. Androgens, including testosterone, are the hormones that control male sexual development and reproduction. In females, luteinizing hormone triggers the release of egg cells from the ovary (ovulation). Chorionic gonadotropin is produced during pregnancy and helps maintain conditions necessary for the pregnancy to continue.  The LHCGR gene mutations that cause Leydig cell hypoplasia disrupt luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin receptor function, impeding the body's ability to react to these hormones. In males, the mutations result in poorly developed or absent Leydig cells and impaired production of testosterone. A lack of testosterone interferes with the development of male reproductive organs before birth and the changes that appear at puberty. Mutations that prevent the production of any functional receptor protein cause the more severe features of Leydig cell hypoplasia, and mutations that allow some receptor protein function cause milder signs and symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Acute alcohol sensitivity ?
Answer: Alcohol intolerance is characterized by immediate unpleasant reactions after drinking alcohol. The most common signs and symptoms of alcohol intolerance are stuffy nose and skin flushing. Alcohol intolerance is caused by a genetic condition in which the body is unable to break down alcohol efficiently, usually found in Asians. These individuals accumulate acetaldehyde, the primary metabolite of ethanol, because of a genetic polymorphism of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) that metabolizes acetaldehyde to nontoxic acetate.[9184] The only way to prevent alcohol intolerance reactions is to avoid alcohol. Alcohol intolerance isn't an allergy. However, in some cases, what seems to be alcohol intolerance may be a reaction to something in an alcoholic beverage, such as chemicals, grains or preservatives. Combining alcohol with certain medications also can cause reactions. In rare instances, an unpleasant reaction to alcohol can be a sign of a serious underlying health problem that requires diagnosis and treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is phenylketonuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Cystic Fibrosis ?
Answer: The signs and symptoms of cystic fibrosis (CF) vary from person to person and over time. Sometimes you'll have few symptoms. Other times, your symptoms may become more severe.
                
One of the first signs of CF that parents may notice is that their baby's skin tastes salty when kissed, or the baby doesn't pass stool when first born.
                
Most of the other signs and symptoms of CF happen later. They're related to how CF affects the respiratory, digestive, or reproductive systems of the body.
                
Cystic Fibrosis
                

                
Respiratory System Signs and Symptoms
                
People who have CF have thick, sticky mucus that builds up in their airways. This buildup of mucus makes it easier for bacteria to grow and cause infections. Infections can block the airways and cause frequent coughing that brings up thick sputum (spit) or mucus that's sometimes bloody.
                
People who have CF tend to have lung infections caused by unusual germs that don't respond to standard antibiotics. For example, lung infections caused by bacteria called mucoid Pseudomonas are much more common in people who have CF than in those who don't. An infection caused by these bacteria may be a sign of CF.
                
People who have CF have frequent bouts of sinusitis (si-nu-SI-tis), an infection of the sinuses. The sinuses are hollow air spaces around the eyes, nose, and forehead. Frequent bouts of bronchitis (bron-KI-tis) and pneumonia (nu-MO-ne-ah) also can occur. These infections can cause long-term lung damage.
                
As CF gets worse, you may have more serious problems, such as pneumothorax (noo-mo-THOR-aks) or bronchiectasis (brong-ke-EK-ta-sis).
                
Some people who have CF also develop nasal polyps (growths in the nose) that may require surgery.
                
Digestive System Signs and Symptoms
                
In CF, mucus can block tubes, or ducts, in your pancreas (an organ in your abdomen). These blockages prevent enzymes from reaching your intestines.
                
As a result, your intestines can't fully absorb fats and proteins. This can cause ongoing diarrhea or bulky, foul-smelling, greasy stools. Intestinal blockages also may occur, especially in newborns. Too much gas or severe constipation in the intestines may cause stomach pain and discomfort.
                
A hallmark of CF in children is poor weight gain and growth. These children are unable to get enough nutrients from their food because of the lack of enzymes to help absorb fats and proteins.
                
As CF gets worse, other problems may occur, such as:
                
Pancreatitis (PAN-kre-ah-TI-tis). This is a condition in which the pancreas become inflamed, which causes pain.
                
Rectal prolapse. Frequent coughing or problems passing stools may cause rectal tissue from inside you to move out of your rectum.
                
Liver disease due to inflamed or blocked bile ducts.
                
Diabetes.
                
Gallstones.
                
Reproductive System Signs and Symptoms
                
Men who have CF are infertile because they're born without a vas deferens. The vas deferens is a tube that delivers sperm from the testes to the penis.
                
Women who have CF may have a hard time getting pregnant because of mucus blocking the cervix or other CF complications.
                
Other Signs, Symptoms, and Complications
                
Other signs and symptoms of CF are related to an upset of the balance of minerals in your blood.
                
CF causes your sweat to become very salty. As a result, your body loses large amounts of salt when you sweat. This can cause dehydration (a lack of fluid in your body), increased heart rate, fatigue (tiredness), weakness, decreased blood pressure, heat stroke, and, rarely, death.
                
CF also can cause clubbing and low bone density. Clubbing is the widening and rounding of the tips of your fingers and toes. This sign develops late in CF because your lungs aren't moving enough oxygen into your bloodstream.
                
Low bone density also tends to occur late in CF. It can lead to bone-thinning disorders called osteoporosis and osteopenia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: Who is at risk for Oxygen Therapy? ?
Answer: Oxygen therapy can cause complications and side effects. These problems might include a dry or bloody nose, skin irritation from the nasal cannula or face mask, fatigue (tiredness), and morning headaches.
                
If these problems persist, tell your doctor and home equipment provider. Depending on the problem, your doctor may need to change your oxygen flow rate or the length of time you're using the oxygen.
                
If nose dryness is a problem, your doctor may recommend a nasal spray or have a humidifier added to your oxygen equipment.
                
If you have an uncomfortable nasal cannula or face mask, your home equipment provider can help you find a device that fits better. Your provider also can recommend over-the-counter gels and devices that are designed to lessen skin irritation.
                
Complications from transtracheal oxygen therapy can be more serious. With this type of oxygen therapy, oxygen is delivered through a tube inserted into your windpipe through the front of your neck.
                
With transtracheal oxygen therapy:
                
Mucus balls might develop on the tube inside the windpipe. Mucus balls tend to form as a result of the oxygen drying out the airways. Mucus balls can cause coughing and clog the windpipe or tube.
                
Problems with the tube slipping or breaking.
                
Infection.
                
Injury to the lining of the windpipe.
                
Proper medical care and correct handling of the tube and other supplies may reduce the risk of complications.
                
Other Risks
                
In certain people, oxygen therapy may suppress the drive to breathe, affecting how well the respiratory system works. This is managed by adjusting the oxygen flow rate.
                
Oxygen poses a fire risk, so you'll need to take certain safety steps. Oxygen itself isn't explosive, but it can worsen a fire. In the presence of oxygen, a small fire can quickly get out of control. Also, the cylinder that compressed oxygen gas comes in might explode if exposed to heat.
                
Your home equipment provider will give you a complete list of safety steps you'll need to take at home and when out in public.
                
For example, when you're not using the oxygen, keep it in an airy room. Never store compressed oxygen gas cylinders and liquid oxygen containers in small, enclosed places, such as in closets, behind curtains, or under clothes.
                
Oxygen containers let off small amounts of oxygen. These small amounts can build up to harmful levels if they're allowed to escape into small spaces.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Rhizomelic syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Rhizomelic syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Rhizomelic syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormal hair quantity 90% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Abnormality of the elbow 90% Abnormality of the fontanelles or cranial sutures 90% Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Abnormality of the humerus 90% Abnormality of the knees 90% Abnormality of the pulmonary artery 90% Abnormality of the tongue 90% Acne 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Limb undergrowth 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Microcephaly 90% Preaxial hand polydactyly 90% Short distal phalanx of finger 90% Short neck 90% Short stature 90% Triphalangeal thumb 90% Cleft palate 50% Kyphosis 50% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bifid distal phalanx of the thumb - Complete duplication of thumb phalanx - Hip dislocation - Pulmonic stenosis - Rhizomelia - Wide anterior fontanel - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type ?
Answer: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), dermatosparaxis type is caused by changes (mutations) in the ADAMTS2 gene. This gene encodes an enzyme that helps process several types of "procollagen molecules" (precursors of collagen). Collagen is a protein that provides structure and strength to connective tissues throughout the body. Mutations in ADAMTS2 lead to reduced levels of functional enzyme which interferes with the proper processing of procollagens. As a result, networks of collagen are not assembled properly. This weakens connective tissues and causes the many signs and symptoms associated with EDS, dermatosparaxis type.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Sexual Assault ?
Answer: Sexual assault is any sexual activity to which you haven't freely given your consent. This includes completed or attempted sex acts that are against your will. Sometimes it can involve a victim who is unable to consent. It also includes abusive sexual contact. It can happen to men, women or children.    The attacker can be anyone - a current or former partner, a family member, a person in position of power or trust, a friend, an acquaintance, or a stranger.    Sexual assault can affect your health in many ways. It can lead to long-term health and emotional problems. It is important to seek help if you have been assaulted. First, get to a safe place. Then dial 9-1-1 or go to a hospital for medical care. You may want to have counseling to deal with your feelings. The most important thing to know is that the assault was not your fault.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Metachromatic leukodystrophy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Metachromatic leukodystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Metachromatic leukodystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Behavioral abnormality 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Decreased nerve conduction velocity 90% Developmental regression 90% Gait disturbance 90% Genu recurvatum 90% Incoordination 90% Muscle weakness 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Peripheral neuropathy 90% Reduced consciousness/confusion 90% Seizures 90% Amaurosis fugax 50% Hyperreflexia 50% Hypertonia 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Nystagmus 50% Optic atrophy 50% Aganglionic megacolon 7.5% Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Bulbar palsy - Cholecystitis - Chorea - Delusions - Dysarthria - Dystonia - EMG: neuropathic changes - Emotional lability - Gallbladder dysfunction - Hallucinations - Hyporeflexia - Increased CSF protein - Intellectual disability - Loss of speech - Mental deterioration - Peripheral demyelination - Progressive peripheral neuropathy - Spastic tetraplegia - Tetraplegia - Urinary incontinence - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is thanatophoric dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Thanatophoric dysplasia is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one mutated copy of the FGFR3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Virtually all cases of thanatophoric dysplasia are caused by new mutations in the FGFR3 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. No affected individuals are known to have had children; therefore, the disorder has not been passed to the next generation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by age-related macular degeneration ?
Answer: Age-related macular degeneration has an estimated prevalence of 1 in 2,000 people in the United States and other developed countries. The condition currently affects several million Americans, and the prevalence is expected to increase over the coming decades as the proportion of older people in the population increases.  For reasons that are unclear, age-related macular degeneration affects individuals of European descent more frequently than African Americans in the United States.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Coats disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Coats disease inherited? In most cases, Coats disease is not inherited. Eighty to 90% of affected people have no evidence of a genetic predisposition to the condition and no affected family members. Rarely, Coats disease can be inherited as a feature of several different genetic syndromes. For example, Coats disease has been reported in people with Senior-Loken syndrome and is a key symptom of a condition called Coats plus syndrome, which is characterized by Coats disease plus abnormalities of the brain, bones, gastrointestinal system, and other parts of the body. Both of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for biotinidase deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of biotinidase deficiency:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Biotinidase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Biotinidase deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Pantothenic Acid and Biotin   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Hemifacial Spasm ?
Answer: The prognosis for an individual with hemifacial spasm depends on the treatment and their response. Some individuals will become relatively free from symptoms with injection therapy. Some may require surgery. In most cases, a balance can be achieved, with tolerable residual symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is the outlook for Motor Neuron Diseases ?
Answer: Prognosis varies depending on the type of MND and the age of onset. Some MNDs, such as primary lateral sclerosis and Kennedy disease, are not fatal and progress slowly. Patients with spinal muscular atrophy may appear to be stable for long periods, but improvement should not be expected. Some MNDs, such as ALS and some forms of spinal muscular atrophy, are fatal.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Different factors increase or decrease the risk of lung cancer.
                    		Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of getting a disease is called a protective factor.   For information about risk factors and protective factors for lung cancer, see the PDQ summary on Lung Cancer Prevention.
        				
        				
		                    Key Points
		                    - Screening tests have risks.    - The risks of lung cancer screening tests include the following:          - Finding lung cancer may not improve health or help you live longer.     - False-negative test results can occur.     - False-positive test results can occur.     - Chest x-rays and low-dose spiral CT scans expose the chest to radiation.     -  Talk to your doctor about your risk for lung cancer and your need for screening tests.
		                
		                
		                    Screening tests have risks.
		                    Decisions about screening tests can be difficult. Not all screening tests are helpful and most have risks. Before having any screening test, you may want to discuss the test with your doctor. It is important to know the risks of the test and whether it has been proven to reduce the risk of dying from cancer.
		                
		                
		                    The risks of lung cancer screening tests include the following:
		                    Finding lung cancer may not improve health or help you live longer.    Screening may not improve your health or help you live longer if you have lung cancer that has already spread to other places in your body.     When a screening test result leads to the diagnosis and treatment of a disease that may never have caused symptoms or become life-threatening, it is called overdiagnosis. It is not known if treatment of these cancers would help you live longer than if no treatment were given, and treatments for cancer may have serious side effects. Harms of treatment may happen more often in people who have medical problems caused by heavy or long-term smoking.       False-negative test results can occur.    Screening test results may appear to be normal even though lung cancer is present. A person who receives a false-negative test result (one that shows there is no cancer when there really is) may delay seeking medical care even if there are symptoms.       False-positive test results can occur.    Screening test results may appear to be abnormal even though no cancer is present. A false-positive test result (one that shows there is cancer when there really isn't) can cause anxiety and is usually followed by more tests (such as biopsy), which also have risks. A biopsy to diagnose lung cancer can cause part of the lung to collapse. Sometimes surgery is needed to reinflate the lung. Harms of diagnostic tests may happen more often in patients who have medical problems caused by heavy or long-term smoking.        Chest x-rays and low-dose spiral CT scans expose the chest to radiation.     Radiation exposure from chest x-rays and low-dose spiral CT scans may increase the risk of cancer. Younger people and people at low risk for lung cancer are more likely to develop lung cancer caused by radiation exposure. .        Talk to your doctor about your risk for lung cancer and your need for screening tests.    Talk to your doctor or other health care provider about your risk for lung cancer, whether a screening test is right for you, and about the benefits and harms of the screening test. You should take part in the decision about whether a screening test is right for you. (See the PDQ summary on Cancer Screening Overview for more information.)
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Spondylocostal dysostosis 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spondylocostal dysostosis 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spondylocostal dysostosis 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of immune system physiology 90% Abnormality of the intervertebral disk 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Scoliosis 90% Short neck 90% Short stature 90% Short thorax 90% Vertebral segmentation defect 90% Kyphosis 50% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of the ureter 7.5% Anomalous pulmonary venous return 7.5% Anteverted nares 7.5% Broad forehead 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Depressed nasal bridge 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Meningocele 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Prominent occiput 7.5% Spina bifida occulta 7.5% Umbilical hernia 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% Abnormality of the odontoid process - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Block vertebrae - Death in infancy - Disproportionate short-trunk short stature - Hemivertebrae - Recurrent respiratory infections - Rib fusion - Severe short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Coats plus syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Coats plus syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cerebroretinal microangiopathy with calcifications and cysts   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Monomelic Amyotrophy ?
Answer: The symptoms of MMA usually progress slowly for one to two years before reaching a plateau, and then remain stable for many years. Disability is generally slight. Rarely, the weakness progresses to the opposite limb. There is also a slowly progressive variant of MMA known as O'Sullivan-McLeod syndrome, which only affects the small muscles of the hand and forearm and has a slowly progressive course.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Glaucoma ?
Answer: Through studies in the laboratory and with patients, the National Eye Institute is seeking better ways to detect, treat, and prevent vision loss in people with glaucoma. For example, researchers have discovered genes that could help explain how glaucoma damages the eye. NEI also is supporting studies to learn more about who is likely to get glaucoma, when to treat people who have increased eye pressure, and which treatment to use first.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for Bronchiolitis obliterans ?
Answer: How might bronchiolitis obliterans be treated? While there is no cure for this condition, treatment with corticosteroids can help to stabilize or slow its progression. Immunosuppressive therapies and lung transplants might also be used. Treatment is most effective during the early stages of the disease. If left untreated, bronchiolitis obliterans can be fatal.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Hemophilia ?
Answer: If you or your child appears to have a bleeding problem, your doctor will ask about your personal and family medical histories. This will reveal whether you or your family members, including women and girls, have bleeding problems. However, some people who have hemophilia have no recent family history of the disease.
                
You or your child also will likely have a physical exam and blood tests to diagnose hemophilia. Blood tests are used to find out:
                
How long it takes for your blood to clot
                
Whether your blood has low levels of any clotting factors
                
Whether any clotting factors are completely missing from your blood
                
The test results will show whether you have hemophilia, what type of hemophilia you have, and how severe it is.
                
Hemophilia A and B are classified as mild, moderate, or severe, depending on the amount of clotting factor VIII or IX in the blood.
                
The severity of symptoms can overlap between the categories. For example, some people who have mild hemophilia may have bleeding problems almost as often or as severe as some people who have moderate hemophilia.
                
Severe hemophilia can cause serious bleeding problems in babies. Thus, children who have severe hemophilia usually are diagnosed during the first year of life. People who have milder forms of hemophilia may not be diagnosed until they're adults.
                
The bleeding problems of hemophilia A and hemophilia B are the same. Only special blood tests can tell which type of the disorder you or your child has. Knowing which type is important because the treatments are different.
                
Pregnant women who are known hemophilia carriers can have the disorder diagnosed in their unborn babies as early as 12 weeks into their pregnancies.
                
Women who are hemophilia carriers also can have "preimplantation diagnosis" to have children who don't have hemophilia.
                
For this process, women have their eggs removed and fertilized by sperm in a laboratory. The embryos are then tested for hemophilia. Only embryos without the disorder are implanted in the womb.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the ear - Abnormality of the immune system - Anteverted nares - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Beta-cell dysfunction - Clinodactyly - Diabetes mellitus - Downturned corners of mouth - Hyperglycemia - Hypsarrhythmia - Intrauterine growth retardation - Ketoacidosis - Limb joint contracture - Long philtrum - Motor delay - Muscle weakness - Muscular hypotonia of the trunk - Peripheral neuropathy - Prominent metopic ridge - Ptosis - Radial deviation of finger - Seizures - Small for gestational age - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Kidney Failure: Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis ?
Answer: Calories provide energy for your body. If your doctor recommends it, you may need to cut down on the calories you eat. A dietitian can help you plan ways to cut calories in the best possible way.
                
Some people on dialysis need to gain weight. You may need to find ways to add calories to your diet. Vegetable oils-like olive oil, canola oil, and safflower oil-are good sources of calories. Use them generously on breads, rice, and noodles.
                
Butter and margarines are rich in calories. But these fatty foods can also clog your arteries. Use them less often. Soft margarine that comes in a tub is better than stick margarine. Vegetable oils are the healthiest way to add fat to your diet if you need to gain weight.
                
Hard candy, sugar, honey, jam, and jelly provide calories and energy without clogging arteries or adding other things that your body does not need. If you have diabetes, be very careful about eating sweets. A dietitian's guidance is very important for people with diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Pilomatrixoma ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pilomatrixoma? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pilomatrixoma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Pilomatrixoma - Somatic mutation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Other Myeloid Malignancies ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for children with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML), or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).     - Treatment is planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating childhood leukemia and other diseases of the blood.    - Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment has ended.     - The treatment of childhood AML usually has two phases.    - Seven types of standard treatment are used for childhood AML, childhood CML, JMML, or MDS.         - Chemotherapy      - Radiation therapy     - Stem cell transplant     - Targeted therapy     - Other drug therapy     - Watchful waiting     - Supportive care        -  New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.          - Biologic therapy        - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for children with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML), or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).
                    Different types of treatment are available for children with AML, CML, JMML, or MDS. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment.    Because cancer in children is rare, taking part in a clinical trial should be considered. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Treatment is planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating childhood leukemia and other diseases of the blood.
                    Treatment will be overseen by a pediatric oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating children with cancer. The pediatric oncologist works with other healthcare providers who are experts in treating children with leukemia and who specialize in certain areas of medicine. These may include the following specialists:         -  Pediatrician.    -  Hematologist.    -  Medical oncologist.    -  Pediatric surgeon.    -  Radiation oncologist.    -  Neurologist.    -  Neuropathologist.    -  Neuroradiologist.    -  Pediatric nurse specialist.    -  Social worker.    -  Rehabilitation specialist.    -  Psychologist.
                
                
                    Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment has ended.
                    Regular follow-up exams are very important. Some cancer treatments cause side effects that continue or appear months or years after cancer treatment has ended. These are called late effects. Late effects of cancer treatment may include:         - Physical problems.    - Changes in mood, feelings, thinking, learning, or memory.    -  Second cancers (new types of cancer).        Some late effects may be treated or controlled. It is important that parents of children who are treated for AML or other blood diseases talk with their doctors about the effects cancer treatment can have on their child. (See the PDQ summary on Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer for more information).
                
                
                    The treatment of childhood AML usually has two phases.
                    The treatment of childhood AML is done in phases:         -  Induction therapy: This is the first phase of treatment. The goal is to kill the leukemia cells in the blood and bone marrow. This puts the leukemia into remission.    -  Consolidation /intensification therapy: This is the second phase of treatment. It begins once the leukemia is in remission. The goal of therapy is to kill any remaining leukemia cells that may not be active but could begin to regrow and cause a relapse.        Treatment called central nervous system (CNS) sanctuary therapy may be given during the induction phase of therapy. Because standard doses of chemotherapy may not reach leukemia cells in the CNS (brain and spinal cord), the cells are able to find sanctuary (hide) in the CNS. Intrathecal chemotherapy is able to reach leukemia cells in the CNS. It is given to kill the leukemia cells and lessen the chance the leukemia will recur (come back). CNS sanctuary therapy is also called CNS prophylaxis.
                
                
                    Seven types of standard treatment are used for childhood AML, childhood CML, JMML, or MDS.
                    Chemotherapy      Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid (intrathecal chemotherapy), an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Combination chemotherapy is treatment using more than one anticancer drug.     The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type of cancer being treated.    In AML, the leukemia cells may spread to the brain and/or spinal cord. Chemotherapy given by mouth or vein to treat AML may not cross the blood-brain barrier to get into the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. Instead, chemotherapy is injected into the fluid-filled space to kill leukemia cells that may have spread there (intrathecal chemotherapy).       See Drugs Approved for Acute Myeloid Leukemia for more information.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of the cancer being treated. In childhood AML, external radiation therapy may be used to treat a chloroma that does not respond to chemotherapy.       Stem cell transplant     Stem cell transplant is a way of giving chemotherapy and replacing blood-forming cells that are abnormal or destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.        Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Types of targeted therapy include the following:            -   Tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy: Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy blocks signals needed for tumors to grow. TKIs block the enzyme (tyrosine kinase) that causes stem cells to become more white blood cells (granulocytes or blasts) than the body needs. TKIs may be used with other anticancer drugs as adjuvant therapy (treatment given after the initial treatment, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back).                   -  Imatinib is a type of TKI that is approved to treat childhood CML.        -  Sorafenib, dasatinib, and nilotinib are being studied in the treatment of childhood leukemia.                -   Monoclonal antibody therapy: Monoclonal antibody therapy uses antibodies made in the laboratory, from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells.                   -  Gemtuzumab is a type of monoclonal antibody used in the treatment of a subtype of AML called acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Gemtuzumab is not available in the United States unless special approval is given. Monoclonal antibodies may be used with chemotherapy as adjuvant therapy.                -   Proteasome inhibitor therapy: Proteasome inhibitors break down proteins in cancer cells and kill them.                   -  Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor used to treat childhood APL.                      See Drugs Approved for Leukemia for more information.       Other drug therapy     Lenalidomide may be used to lessen the need for transfusions in patients who have myelodysplastic syndromes caused by a specific chromosome change.     Arsenic trioxide and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) are anticancer drugs that kill leukemia cells, stop the leukemia cells from dividing, or help the leukemia cells mature into white blood cells. These drugs are used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia.    See Drugs Approved for Acute Myeloid Leukemia for more information.       Watchful waiting     Watchful waiting is closely monitoring a patients condition without giving any treatment until signs or symptoms appear or change. It is sometimes used to treat MDS or TMD.       Supportive care     Supportive care is given to lessen the problems caused by the disease or its treatment. Supportive care may include the following:            -  Transfusion therapy: A way of giving red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets to replace blood cells destroyed by disease or cancer treatment. The blood may be donated from another person or it may have been taken from the patient earlier and stored until needed.     -  Drug therapy, such as antibiotics or antifungal agents.     -  Leukapheresis: A procedure in which a special machine is used to remove white blood cells from the blood. Blood is taken from the patient and put through a blood cell separator where the white blood cells are removed. The rest of the blood is then returned to the patient's bloodstream.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.     Natural killer (NK) cells are a type of biologic therapy. NK cells are white blood cells that can kill tumor cells. These may be taken from a donor and given to the patient by infusion to help kill leukemia cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your child's condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
                        
																            Treatment Options for Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Childhood Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia, and Myelodysplastic Syndromes
																            
																                
																                    Newly Diagnosed Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia
																                    Treatment of newly diagnosed childhood acute myeloid leukemia may include the following:         -  Combination chemotherapy plus central nervous system sanctuary therapy with intrathecal chemotherapy.    - A clinical trial comparing different chemotherapy regimens (doses and schedules of treatment).    - A clinical trial of combination chemotherapy and targeted therapy with a proteasome inhibitor or a tyrosine kinase inhibitor with or without stem cell transplant.         Treatment of newly diagnosed childhood acute leukemia with a granulocytic sarcoma (chloroma) may include chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy.   Treatment of therapy -related AML is usually the same as for newly diagnosed AML, followed by stem cell transplant.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with untreated childhood acute myeloid leukemia and other myeloid malignancies. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
																                
																                
																                    Children with Newly Diagnosed Childhood AML and Down Syndrome
																                    Treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in children aged 4 years or younger who have Down syndrome may include the following:          -  Combination chemotherapy plus central nervous system sanctuary therapy with intrathecal chemotherapy.        Treatment of AML in children older than 4 years who have Down syndrome may be the same as treatment for children without Down syndrome.
																                
																                
																                    Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission
																                    Treatment of childhood acute myeloid leukemia (AML) during the remission phase (consolidation /intensification therapy) depends on the subtype of AML and may include the following:          -  Combination chemotherapy.     -  High-dose chemotherapy followed by stem cell transplant using blood stem cells from a donor.     - A clinical trial of chemotherapy followed by an infusion of natural killer cells.    - A clinical trial of combination chemotherapy and targeted therapy with a proteasome inhibitor or a tyrosine kinase inhibitor with or without stem cell transplant.         Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood acute myeloid leukemia in remission. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
																                
																                
																                    Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia
																                    Treatment of recurrent childhood acute myeloid leukemia (AML) may include the following:         -  Combination chemotherapy.    - Combination chemotherapy and stem cell transplant.    - A second stem cell transplant.    - A clinical trial of combinations of new anticancer drugs, new biologic agents, and stem cell transplant using different sources of stem cells.        Treatment of recurrent AML in children with Down syndrome is chemotherapy. It is not clear if stem cell transplant after chemotherapy is helpful in treating these children.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent childhood acute myeloid leukemia. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
																                
																                
																                    Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
																                    Treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia may include the following:         -  All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) plus chemotherapy.    -  Arsenic trioxide therapy.    -  Central nervous system sanctuary therapy with intrathecal chemotherapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood acute promyelocytic leukemia (M3). For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
																                
																                
																                    Recurrent Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
																                    Treatment of recurrent acute promyelocytic leukemia may include the following:         -  All-trans retinoic acid therapy (ATRA) plus chemotherapy.    -  Arsenic trioxide therapy.    -  Targeted therapy with a monoclonal antibody (gemtuzumab), if special approval is given.     -  Stem cell transplant using blood stem cells from the patient or a donor.
																                
																                
																                    Childhood Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
																                    Treatment for childhood chronic myelogenous leukemia may include the following:         -  Targeted therapy with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (imatinib).    - A clinical trial of targeted therapy with other tyrosine kinase inhibitors.        For patients whose disease does not respond to therapy with imatinib or whose disease comes back after treatment, treatment may include the following:         -  Stem cell transplant using blood stem cells from a donor.    - A clinical trial of targeted therapy with other tyrosine kinase inhibitors.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood chronic myelogenous leukemia. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
																                
																                
																                    Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia
																                    Treatment of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) may include the following:         -  Combination chemotherapy followed by stem cell transplant. If JMML recurs after stem cell transplant, a second stem cell transplant may be done.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
																                
																                
																                    Myelodysplastic Syndromes
																                    Treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) may include the following:         -  Watchful waiting.    -  Stem cell transplant using blood stem cells from a donor.    -  Combination chemotherapy.    -  Lenalidomide therapy.    - A clinical trial of stem cell transplant using lower doses of chemotherapy.    - A clinical trial of a new anticancer drug or targeted therapy.        If the MDS becomes acute myeloid leukemia (AML), treatment will be the same as treatment for newly diagnosed AML.   Treatment of therapy-related MDS is usually the same as for newly diagnosed AML, followed by stem cell transplant.   Transient myeloproliferative disorder (TMD), a type of MDS, usually goes away on its own. For TMD that does not go away on its own, treatment may include the following:         -  Transfusion therapy.    -  Leukapheresis.    -  Chemotherapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood myelodysplastic syndromes. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Hypoplastic left heart syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hypoplastic left heart syndrome? Normally, oxygen-poor blood is pumped through the right side of the heart to the lungs, where it gains oxygen and returns to the left side of the heart. The oxygen-rich blood is then pumped from the left side of the heart to the rest of the body. At birth, all babies also have two connections, or shunts, between the two sides of the heart; however, within a few days of birth these connections close. In those with HLHS, the underdeveloped left side of the heart is unable to provide enough blood flow to the body. The normal shunts present at birth help to direct blood to the body; when these connections close the oxygen-rich blood supply decreases. At first, a newborn with HLHS may appear normal. Symptoms usually occur in the first few hours of life, although it may take up to a few days to develop symptoms. These symptoms may include: Bluish (cyanosis) or poor skin color Cold hands and feet (extremities) Lethargy Poor pulse Poor suckling and feeding Pounding heart Rapid breathing Shortness of breath In healthy newborns, bluish color in the hands and feet is a response to cold (this reaction is called peripheral cyanosis). However, a bluish color in the chest or abdomen, lips, and tongue is abnormal (called central cyanosis). It is a sign that there is not enough oxygen in the blood. Central cyanosis often increases with crying. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hypoplastic left heart syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hypoplastic left heart 90% Abnormality of the aorta 50% Abnormality of chromosome segregation 7.5% Abnormality of the mitral valve 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Maternal diabetes 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: How might succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency be treated? Treatment of succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (SSADH) is generally symptomatic and typically focuses on the treatment of seizures and neurobehavioral disturbances. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) that have proven to be effective in treating the seizures associated with this condition include carbamazepine and lamotrigine (LTG). Medications such as methylphenidate, thioridazine, risperidal, fluoxetine, and benzodiazepines appear to be effective at treating anxiety, aggressiveness, inattention, and hallucinations. Additional treatments may include physical and occupational therapy, sensory integration, and/or speech therapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) epidermolysis bullosa with pyloric atresia ?
Answer: Epidermolysis bullosa with pyloric atresia (EB-PA) is a condition that affects the skin and digestive tract. This condition is one of several forms of epidermolysis bullosa, a group of genetic conditions that cause the skin to be fragile and to blister easily. Affected infants are often born with widespread blistering and areas of missing skin. Blisters continue to appear in response to minor injury or friction, such as rubbing or scratching. Most often, blisters occur over the whole body and affect mucous membranes such as the moist lining of the mouth and digestive tract.  People with EB-PA are also born with pyloric atresia, which is an obstruction of the lower part of the stomach (the pylorus). This obstruction prevents food from emptying out of the stomach into the intestine. Signs of pyloric atresia include vomiting, a swollen (distended) abdomen, and an absence of stool. Pyloric atresia is life-threatening and must be repaired with surgery soon after birth.  Other complications of EB-PA can include fusion of the skin between the fingers and toes, abnormalities of the fingernails and toenails, joint deformities (contractures) that restrict movement, and hair loss (alopecia). Some affected individuals are also born with malformations of the urinary tract, including the kidneys and bladder.  Because the signs and symptoms of EB-PA are so severe, many infants with this condition do not survive beyond the first year of life. In those who survive, the condition may improve with time; some affected individuals have little or no blistering later in life. However, many affected individuals who live past infancy experience severe medical problems, including blistering and the formation of red, bumpy patches called granulation tissue. Granulation tissue most often forms on the skin around the mouth, nose, fingers, and toes. It can also build up in the airway, leading to difficulty breathing.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Isaacs' Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports an extensive research program of basic studies to increase understanding of diseases that affect the brain, spinal cord, muscles, and nerves. This research examines the genetics, symptoms, progression, and psychological and behavioral impact of diseases, with the goal of improving ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, cure these disorders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How to diagnose Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumors ?
Answer: Imaging studies and tests that examine the blood and urine are used to detect (find) and diagnose gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.     -   Blood chemistry studies : A procedure in which a blood sample is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances, such as hormones, released into the blood by organs and tissues in the body. An unusual (higher or lower than normal) amount of a substance can be a sign of disease. The blood sample is checked to see if it contains a hormone produced by carcinoid tumors. This test is used to help diagnose carcinoid syndrome.     -   Tumor marker test : A procedure in which a sample of blood, urine, or tissue is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances, such as chromogranin A, made by organs, tissues, or tumor cells in the body. Chromogranin A is a tumor marker. It has been linked to neuroendocrine tumors when found in increased levels in the body.     -  Twenty-four-hour urine test: A test in which urine is collected for 24 hours to measure the amounts of certain substances, such as 5-HIAA or serotonin (hormone). An unusual (higher or lower than normal) amount of a substance can be a sign of disease in the organ or tissue that makes it. This test is used to help diagnose carcinoid syndrome.    -  MIBG scan : A procedure used to find neuroendocrine tumors, such as carcinoid tumors. A very small amount of radioactive material called MIBG (metaiodobenzylguanidine) is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. Carcinoid tumors take up the radioactive material and are detected by a device that measures radiation.    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.     -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging     -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells.    -   Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS): A procedure in which an endoscope is inserted into the body, usually through the mouth or rectum. An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. A probe at the end of the endoscope is used to bounce high-energy sound waves (ultrasound) off internal tissues or organs, such as the stomach, small intestine, colon, or rectum, and make echoes. The echoes form a picture of body tissues called a sonogram. This procedure is also called endosonography.     -   Upper endoscopy : A procedure to look at organs and tissues inside the body to check for abnormal areas. An endoscope is inserted through the mouth and passed through the esophagus into the stomach. Sometimes the endoscope also is passed from the stomach into the small intestine. An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove tissue or lymph node samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of disease.     -   Colonoscopy : A procedure to look inside the rectum and colon for polyps, abnormal areas, or cancer. A colonoscope is inserted through the rectum into the colon. A colonoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove polyps or tissue samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of cancer.    -   Capsule endoscopy : A procedure used to see all of the small intestine. The patient swallows a capsule that contains a tiny camera. As the capsule moves through the gastrointestinal tract, the camera takes pictures and sends them to a receiver worn on the outside of the body.     -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope to check for signs of cancer. Tissue samples may be taken during endoscopy and colonoscopy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Centronuclear myopathy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Centronuclear myopathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Centronuclear myopathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) EMG abnormality 90% Gait disturbance 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 90% Arrhythmia 50% Mask-like facies 50% Ophthalmoparesis 50% Ptosis 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Scoliosis 50% Seizures 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for abdominal wall defect ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of abdominal wall defect:  - Cincinnati Children's Hospital: Gastroschisis  - Cincinnati Children's Hospital: Omphalocele  - Cleveland Clinic: Omphalocele  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital omphalocele  - Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children (UK): Gastroschisis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Gastroschisis Repair  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Gastroschisis Repair--Series (images)  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Omphalocele Repair  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Omphalocele Repair--Series (images)  - Seattle Children's Hospital: Gastroschisis Treatment Options  - Seattle Children's Hospital: Omphalocele Treatment Options  - The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia: Diagnosis and Treatment of Gastroschisis  - The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia: Overview and Treatment of Omphalocele  - University of California, San Francisco Fetal Treatment Center: Gastroschisis  - University of California, San Francisco Fetal Treatment Center: Omphalocele   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Cutaneous mastocytosis ?
Answer: How is cutaneous mastocytosis diagnosed? A diagnosis of cutaneous mastocytosis is typically suspected based on the presence of suspicious signs and symptoms. A skin biopsy that reveals a high number of mast cells (immune cells that are important for the inflammatory response) confirms the diagnosis. Unfortunately it can sometimes be difficult to differentiate cutaneous mastocytosis from systemic mastocytosis. Additional tests may, therefore, be ordered to further investigate the risk for systemic disease. A bone marrow biopsy and specialized blood tests may be recommended in adults with cutaneous mastocytosis since they are at a higher risk for systemic mastocytosis. Affected children typically do not undergo a bone marrow biopsy unless blood tests are abnormal.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Simple Kidney Cysts ?
Answer: Most simple kidney cysts are found during imaging tests done for other reasons. When a cyst is found, the following imaging tests can be used to determine whether it is a simple kidney cyst or another, more serious condition. These imaging tests are performed at an outpatient center or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaging. Ultrasound may also be performed in a health care providers office. Anesthesia is not needed though light sedation may be used for people with a fear of confined spaces who undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
                
- Ultrasound. Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. An abdominal ultrasound can create images of the entire urinary tract. The images can be used to distinguish harmless cysts from other problems.  - Computerized tomography (CT) scan. CT scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create three-dimensional (3-D) images. A CT scan may include the injection of a special dye, called contrast medium. CT scans require the person to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. CT scans can show cysts and tumors in the kidneys.  - MRI. MRI machines use radio waves and magnets to produce detailed pictures of the bodys internal organs and soft tissues without using x rays. An MRI may include the injection of contrast medium. With most MRI machines, the person lies on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device that may be open ended or closed at one end; some newer machines are designed to allow the person to lie in a more open space. Like CT scans, MRIs can show cysts and tumors.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Pallister W syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pallister W syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pallister W syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acne 90% Broad forehead 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Eczema 90% Hypertonia 90% Macrotia 90% Mandibular prognathia 90% Narrow face 90% Short philtrum 90% Short stature 90% Strabismus 90% Wide nasal bridge 90% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Camptodactyly of toe 50% Cleft palate 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Cubitus valgus 50% Elbow dislocation 50% Hearing impairment 50% Hypertelorism 50% Median cleft lip 50% Non-midline cleft lip 50% Pes cavus 50% Seizures 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Agenesis of central incisor - Agenesis of maxillary central incisor - Alternating esotropia - Broad nasal tip - Broad uvula - Camptodactyly - Clinodactyly - Depressed nasal bridge - Frontal bossing - Frontal upsweep of hair - Hypoplasia of the ulna - Intellectual disability - Joint contracture of the hand - Pes planus - Radial bowing - Radial deviation of finger - Spasticity - Submucous cleft hard palate - Telecanthus - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Inclusion body myositis ?
Answer: Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is an inflammatory myopathy that is characterized by chronic, progressive muscle inflammation and muscle weakness. Symptoms usually begin after the age of 50, although the condition can occur earlier. The onset of muscle weakness usually occurs over months or years. This condition affects both the proximal (close to the trunk of the body) and distal (further away from the trunk) muscles. There is currently no effective treatment for IBM. The cause is unclear in most cases, but it can sometimes be inherited.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency ?
Answer: Sleep deprivation (DEP-rih-VA-shun) is a condition that occurs if you don't get enough sleep. Sleep deficiency is a broader concept. It occurs if you have one or more of the following:
                
You don't get enough sleep (sleep deprivation)
                
You sleep at the wrong time of day (that is, you're out of sync with your body's natural clock)
                
You don't sleep well or get all of the different types of sleep that your body needs
                
You have a sleep disorder that prevents you from getting enough sleep or causes poor quality sleep
                
This article focuses on sleep deficiency, unless otherwise noted.
                
Sleeping is a basic human need, like eating, drinking, and breathing. Like these other needs, sleeping is a vital part of the foundation for good health and well-being throughout your lifetime.
                
Sleep deficiency can lead to physical and mental health problems, injuries, loss of productivity, and even a greater risk of death.
                
Overview
                
To understand sleep deficiency, it helps to understand how sleep works and why it's important. The two basic types of sleep are rapid eye movement (REM) and non-REM.
                
Non-REM sleep includes what is commonly known as deep sleep or slow wave sleep. Dreaming typically occurs during REM sleep. Generally, non-REM and REM sleep occur in a regular pattern of 35 cycles each night.
                
Your ability to function and feel well while you're awake depends on whether you're getting enough total sleep and enough of each type of sleep. It also depends on whether you're sleeping at a time when your body is prepared and ready to sleep.
                
You have an internal "body clock" that controls when you're awake and when your body is ready for sleep. This clock typically follows a 24-hour repeating rhythm (called the circadian rhythm). The rhythm affects every cell, tissue, and organ in your body and how they work. (For more information, go to "What Makes You Sleep?")
                
If you aren't getting enough sleep, are sleeping at the wrong times, or have poor quality sleep, you'll likely feel very tired during the day. You may not feel refreshed and alert when you wake up.
                
Sleep deficiency can interfere with work, school, driving, and social functioning. You might have trouble learning, focusing, and reacting. Also, you might find it hard to judge other people's emotions and reactions. Sleep deficiency also can make you feel frustrated, cranky, or worried in social situations.
                
The signs and symptoms of sleep deficiency may differ between children and adults. Children who are sleep deficient might be overly active and have problems paying attention. They also might misbehave, and their school performance can suffer.
                
Outlook
                
Sleep deficiency is a common public health problem in the United States. People in all age groups report not getting enough sleep.
                
As part of a health survey for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, about 719 percent of adults in the United States reported not getting enough rest or sleep every day. 
                
Nearly 40 percent of adults report falling asleep during the day without meaning to at least once a month. Also, an estimated 50 to 70 million Americans have chronic (ongoing) sleep disorders.
                
Sleep deficiency is linked to many chronic health problems, including heart disease, kidney disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, stroke, obesity, and depression.
                
Sleep deficiency also is associated with an increased risk of injury in adults, teens, and children. For example, driver sleepiness (not related to alcohol) is responsible for serious car crash injuries and death. In the elderly, sleep deficiency might be linked to an increased risk of falls and broken bones.
                
In addition, sleep deficiency has played a role in human errors linked to tragic accidents, such as nuclear reactor meltdowns, grounding of large ships, and aviation accidents.
                
A common myth is that people can learn to get by on little sleep with no negative effects. However, research shows that getting enough quality sleep at the right times is vital for mental health, physical health, quality of life, and safety.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Progeria ?
Answer: Progeria is a rare condition characterized by dramatic, rapid aging beginning in childhood. Affected newborns usually appear normal but within a year, their growth rate slows significantly. Affected children develop a distinctive appearance characterized by baldness, aged-looking skin, a pinched nose, and a small face and jaw relative to head size. They also often have symptoms typically seen in much older people including joint stiffness, hip dislocations and severe, progressive cardiovascular disease. Intelligence is typically normal. The average lifespan is age 13-14; death is usually due to heart attack or stroke. Progeria is caused by mutations in the LMNA gene, but almost always results from a new mutation rather than being inherited from a parent. Management focuses on the individual signs and symptoms of the condition. Although there is currently no cure, research involving treatment is ongoing and progress is being made.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Melanoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website
                
                
                    Treatment for melanoma may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects caused by treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for hemophilia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of hemophilia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hemophilia A  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hemophilia B  - Genetic Testing Registry: HEMOPHILIA B(M)  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hemophilia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary factor IX deficiency disease  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary factor VIII deficiency disease  - Genomics Education Programme (UK): Haemophilia A  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Factor IX Assay  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Factor VIII Assay  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hemophilia A  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hemophilia B  - National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute: How is Hemophilia Diagnosed?  - National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute: How is Hemophilia Treated?  - National Hemophilia Foundation: Hemophilia Treatment Centers   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for type 1 diabetes ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of type 1 diabetes:  - Food and Drug Administration: Blood Glucose Measuring Devices  - Food and Drug Administration: Insulin  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 10  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 11  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 12  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 13  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 15  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 17  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 18  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 19  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 20  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 21  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 22  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 23  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 24  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 6  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 7  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, 8  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent, X-linked, susceptibility to  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Anti-Insulin Antibody Test  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Home Blood Sugar Testing  - MedlinePlus Health Topic: Islet Cell Transplantation  - MedlinePlus Health Topic: Pancreas Transplantation  - Type 1 Diabetes in Adults: National Clinical Guideline for Diagnosis and Management in Primary and Secondary Care (2004)  - Type 1 Diabetes: Diagnosis and Management of Type 1 Diabetes in Children and Young People (2004)   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: Fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAIT) is a condition where a fetus or newborn experiences severe thrombocytopenia (low platelet count). NAIT occurs when the mother's immune system develops antibodies against antigens on the fetal platelets, which are inherited from the father and different from those present in the mother. These antibodies cross the placenta and can cause severe thrombocytopenia in the fetus. NAIT has been considered to be the platelet counterpart of Rh Hemolytic Disease of the Newborn (RHD). The incidence has been estimated at 1/800 to 1/1,000 live births. The spectrum of the disease may range from mild thrombocytopenia to life-threatening bleeding.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Barraquer-Simons syndrome ?
Answer: Barraquer-Simons syndrome, or acquired partial lipodystrophy, is characterized by the loss of fat from the face, neck, shoulders, arms, forearms, chest and abdomen. Occasionally the groin or thighs are also affected. Onset usually begins in childhood following a viral illness. It affects females more often than males. The fat loss usually has a 18 month course, but can come and go over the course of several years.  Following puberty, affected women may experience a disproportionate accumulation of fat in the hips and lower limbs. Around 1 in 5 people with this syndrome develop membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. This kidney condition usually develops more than 10 years after the lipodystrophy's onset. Autoimmune disorders may also occur in association with this syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for alternating hemiplegia of childhood ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of alternating hemiplegia of childhood:  - The Great Ormond Street Hospital  - University of Utah School of Medicine   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for retinal arterial macroaneurysm with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of RAMSVPS:  - Calgary Retina Consultants: Retinal Arterial Macroaneurysm  - Genetic Testing Registry: Retinal arterial macroaneurysm with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Fluorescein Angiography  - University of Rochester Medical Center: Pulmonary Stenosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 4 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Small sella turcica 5% Adrenal insufficiency - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hypoglycemia - Hypothyroidism - Marked delay in bone age - Pituitary dwarfism - Severe postnatal growth retardation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is the outlook for Spinal Cord Infarction ?
Answer: Recovery depends upon how quickly treatment is received and how severely the body is compromised. Paralysis may persist for many weeks or be permanent. Most individuals have a good chance of recovery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Hives ?
Answer: Hives are red and sometimes itchy bumps on your skin. An allergic reaction to a drug or food usually causes them. Allergic reactions cause your body to release chemicals that can make your skin swell up in hives. People who have other allergies are more likely to get hives than other people. Other causes include infections and stress.    Hives are very common. They usually go away on their own, but if you have a serious case, you might need medicine or a shot. In rare cases, hives can cause a dangerous swelling in your airways, making it hard to breathe - which is a medical emergency.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Osteochondritis dissecans ?
Answer: Osteochondritis dissecans is a joint condition that occurs when a piece of cartilage and the thin layer of bone beneath it, separates from the end of the bone. If the piece of cartilage and bone remain close to where they detached, they may not cause any symptoms. However, affected people may experience pain, weakness and/or decreased range of motion in the affected joint if the cartilage and bone travel into the joint space. Although osteochondritis dissecans can affect people of all ages, it is most commonly diagnosed in people between the ages of 10 and 20 years. In most cases, the exact underlying cause is unknown. Rarely, the condition can affect more than one family member (called familial osteochondritis dissecans); in these cases, osteochondritis dissecans is caused by changes (mutations) in the ACAN gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment for the condition varies depending on many factors, including the age of the affected person and the severity of the symptoms, but may include rest; casting or splinting; surgery and/or physical therapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism ?
Answer: X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism is a movement disorder that has been found only in people of Filipino descent. This condition affects men much more often than women.  Parkinsonism is usually the first sign of X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism. Parkinsonism is a group of movement abnormalities including tremors, unusually slow movement (bradykinesia), rigidity, an inability to hold the body upright and balanced (postural instability), and a shuffling gait that can cause recurrent falls.  Later in life, many affected individuals also develop a pattern of involuntary, sustained muscle contractions known as dystonia. The dystonia associated with X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism typically starts in one area, most often the eyes, jaw, or neck, and later spreads to other parts of the body. The continuous muscle cramping and spasms can be disabling. Depending on which muscles are affected, widespread (generalized) dystonia can cause difficulty with speaking, swallowing, coordination, and walking.  The signs and symptoms of X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism vary widely. In the mildest cases, affected individuals have slowly progressive parkinsonism with little or no dystonia. More severe cases involve dystonia that rapidly becomes generalized. These individuals become dependent on others for care within a few years after signs and symptoms appear, and they may die prematurely from breathing difficulties, infections (such as aspiration pneumonia), or other complications.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Nephropathy, deafness, and hyperparathyroidism ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Nephropathy, deafness, and hyperparathyroidism? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Nephropathy, deafness, and hyperparathyroidism. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Sensorineural hearing impairment 90% Bone cyst 50% Glomerulopathy 50% Hypercalcemia 50% Hyperparathyroidism 50% Proteinuria 50% Renal insufficiency 50% Anemia 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Nephropathy - Parathyroid hyperplasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by ALG6-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?
Answer: The prevalence of ALG6-CDG is unknown, but it is thought to be the second most common type of congenital disorder of glycosylation. More than 30 cases of ALG6-CDG have been described in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ?
Answer: Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a condition in which the body makes too many activated immune cells (macrophages and lymphocytes). People with HLH usually develop symptoms within the first months or years of life which may include fever, enlarged liver or spleen, cytopenia (lower-than-normal number of blood cells), and neurological abnormalities. HLH may be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner or it can have non-genetic causes in which case it is called acquired HLH. There are five subtypes of inherited HLH which are designated familial HLH, types 1-5. Each subtype is caused by a change (mutation) in a different gene. The genetic cause of type 1 is currently unknown. Types 2-5 are caused by mutations in the PRF1 gene, the UNC13D gene, the STX11 gene and the STXBP2 gene, respectively. Treatment depends on a number of factors, including the severity of symptoms, the age of onset, and the underlying cause of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) X-linked hypophosphatemia ?
Answer: X-linked Hypophosphatemia (XLH) is an inherited metabolic disorder characterized by low phosphate levels in the blood that can lead to softening and weakening of bones (rickets) as a result of improper processing of phosphate in the kidneys leading to phosphate wasting. XLH is usually diagnosed in childhood, and clinical features include bone abnormalities such as bowed or bent legs, short stature, bone pain, and spontaneous dental abscesses. The condition is caused by mutations in the PHEX gene on the X chromosome, and is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Treatment generally involves phosphate supplementation along with high-dose calcitriol (active Vitamin D) and may also included growth hormones supplementation, corrective surgery, and dental treatment. With consistent treatment, prognosis is typically good, though growth rate may still be low.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by juvenile polyposis syndrome ?
Answer: Juvenile polyposis syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 individuals worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection ?
Answer: Pyelonephritis is treated with antibiotics, which may need to be taken for several weeks. While a urine sample is sent to a lab for culture, the health care provider may begin treatment with an antibiotic that fights the most common types of bacteria. Once culture results are known and the bacteria is clearly identified, the health care provider may switch the antibiotic to one that more effectively targets the bacteria. Antibiotics may be given through a vein, orally, or both. Urinary tract obstructions are often treated with surgery.
                
Severely ill patients may be hospitalized and limited to bed rest until they can take the fluids and medications they need on their own. Fluids and medications may be given intravenously during this time.
                
In adults, repeat urine cultures should be performed after treatment has ended to make sure the infection does not recur. If a repeat test shows infection, another 14-day course of antibiotics is prescribed; if infection recurs again, antibiotics are prescribed for 6 weeks.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Koolen de Vries syndrome ?
Answer: Koolen de Vries syndrome, formerly known as 17q21.31 microdeletion syndrome, is a condition caused by a small deletion of genetic material from chromosome 17. The deletion occurs at a location designated as q21.31. People with 17q21.31 microdeletion syndrome may have developmental delay, intellectual disability, seizures, hypotonia. distinctive facial features, and vision problems. Some affected individuals have heart defects, kidney problems, and skeletal anomalies such as foot deformities. Typically their disposition is described as cheerful, sociable, and cooperative. The exact size of the deletion varies among affected individuals, but it contains at least six genes. This deletion affects one of the two copies of chromosome 17 in each cell. The signs and symptoms of 17q21.31 microdeletion syndrome are probably related to the loss of one or more genes in this region.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of MYH-associated polyposis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of MYH-associated polyposis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for MYH-associated polyposis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Colon cancer 5/12 Adenomatous colonic polyposis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Atherosclerosis ?
Answer: Your doctor will diagnose atherosclerosis based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results.
                
Specialists Involved
                
If you have atherosclerosis, a primary care doctor, such as an internist or family practitioner, may handle your care. Your doctor may recommend other health care specialists if you need expert care, such as:
                
A cardiologist. This is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating heart diseases and conditions. You may go to a cardiologist if you haveperipheral artery disease(P.A.D.)or coronary microvascular disease (MVD).
                
A vascular specialist. This is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating blood vessel problems. You may go to a vascular specialist if you have P.A.D.
                
A neurologist. This is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating nervous system disorders. You may see a neurologist if you've had a stroke due to carotid artery disease.
                
A nephrologist. This is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating kidney diseases and conditions. You may go to a nephrologist if you have chronic kidney disease.
                
Physical Exam
                
During the physical exam, your doctor may listen to your arteries for an abnormal whooshing sound called a bruit (broo-E). Your doctor can hear a bruit when placing a stethoscope over an affected artery. A bruit may indicate poor blood flow due to plaque buildup.
                
Your doctor also may check to see whether any of your pulses (for example, in the leg or foot) are weak or absent. A weak or absent pulse can be a sign of a blocked artery.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
Your doctor may recommend one or more tests to diagnose atherosclerosis. These tests also can help your doctor learn the extent of your disease and plan the best treatment.
                
Blood Tests
                
Blood tests check the levels of certain fats, cholesterol, sugar, and proteins in your blood. Abnormal levels may be a sign that you're at risk for atherosclerosis.
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
An EKG is a simple, painless test that detects and records the heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast the heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through the heart.
                
An EKG can show signs of heart damage caused by CHD. The test also can show signs of a previous or current heart attack.
                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x ray takes pictures of the organs and structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. A chest x ray can reveal signs of heart failure.
                
Ankle/Brachial Index
                
This test compares the blood pressure in your ankle with the blood pressure in your arm to see how well your blood is flowing. This test can help diagnose P.A.D.
                
Echocardiography
                
Echocardiography (echo) uses sound waves to create a moving picture of your heart. The test provides information about the size and shape of your heart and how well your heart chambers and valves are working.
                
Echo also can identify areas of poor blood flow to the heart, areas of heart muscle that aren't contracting normally, and previous injury to the heart muscle caused by poor blood flow.
                
Computed Tomography Scan
                
A computed tomography (CT) scan creates computer-generated pictures of the heart, brain, or other areas of the body. The test can show hardening and narrowing of large arteries.
                
A cardiac CT scan also can show whether calcium has built up in the walls of the coronary (heart) arteries. This may be an early sign of CHD.
                
Stress Testing
                
During stress testing, you exercise to make your heart work hard and beat fast while heart tests are done. If you can't exercise, you may be given medicine to make your heart work hard and beat fast.
                
When your heart is working hard, it needs more blood and oxygen. Plaque-narrowed arteries can't supply enough oxygen-rich blood to meet your heart's needs.
                
A stress test can show possible signs and symptoms of CHD, such as:
                
Abnormal changes in your heart rate or blood pressure
                
Shortness of breath or chest pain
                
Abnormal changes in your heart rhythm or your heart's electrical activity
                
As part of some stress tests, pictures are taken of your heart while you exercise and while you rest. These imaging stress tests can show how well blood is flowing in various parts of your heart. They also can show how well your heart pumps blood when it beats.
                
Angiography
                
Angiography (an-jee-OG-ra-fee) is a test that uses dye and special x rays to show the inside of your arteries. This test can show whether plaque is blocking your arteries and how severe the blockage is.
                
A thin, flexible tube called a catheter is put into a blood vessel in your arm, groin (upper thigh), or neck. Dye that can be seen on an x-ray picture is injected through the catheter into the arteries. By looking at the x-ray picture, your doctor can see the flow of blood through your arteries.
                
Other Tests
                
Other tests are being studied to see whether they can give a better view of plaque buildup in the arteries. Examples of these tests include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET).
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Insomnia 90% Visual impairment 90% Anorexia 50% Incoordination 50% Memory impairment 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Traumatic Brain Injury ?
Answer: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) happens when a bump, blow, jolt, or other head injury causes damage to the brain. Every year, millions of people in the U.S. suffer brain injuries. More than half are bad enough that people must go to the hospital. The worst injuries can lead to permanent brain damage or death. Half of all TBIs are from motor vehicle accidents. Military personnel in combat zones are also at risk.    Symptoms of a TBI may not appear until days or weeks following the injury. A concussion is the mildest type. It can cause a headache or neck pain, nausea, ringing in the ears, dizziness, and tiredness. People with a moderate or severe TBI may have those, plus other symptoms:       - A headache that gets worse or does not go away    - Repeated vomiting or nausea    - Convulsions or seizures    - Inability to awaken from sleep    - Slurred speech    - Weakness or numbness in the arms and legs    - Dilated eye pupils       Health care professionals use a neurological exam and imaging tests to assess TBI. Serious traumatic brain injuries need emergency treatment. Treatment and outcome depend on how severe the injury is. TBI can cause a wide range of changes affecting thinking, sensation, language, or emotions. TBI can be associated with post-traumatic stress disorder. People with severe injuries usually need rehabilitation.     NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Telfer Sugar Jaeger syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Telfer Sugar Jaeger syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Telfer Sugar Jaeger syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cutaneous photosensitivity 90% Hypopigmentation of hair 90% Hypopigmented skin patches 90% Poikiloderma 90% Abnormality of the eyebrow 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Hypermelanotic macule 50% Incoordination 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 50% Aganglionic megacolon 7.5% Heterochromia iridis 7.5% Neoplasm of the skin 7.5% Absent pigmentation of the ventral chest - Ataxia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hearing impairment - Intellectual disability - White forelock - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Kidney disease -- also known as chronic kidney disease (CKD) -- occurs when kidneys can no longer remove wastes and extra water from the blood or perform other functions as they should. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 20 million Americans may have kidney disease. Many more are at risk. (Watch the video to learn more about kidney disease. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is glycogen storage disease type III inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: In Europe, the prevalence of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is estimated to be 1 in 100,000 people. The autosomal dominant form of this condition is much more common in the French-Canadian population of the Canadian province of Quebec, where it is estimated to affect 1 in 1,000 individuals. Autosomal dominant oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is also seen more frequently in the Bukharan (Central Asian) Jewish population of Israel, affecting 1 in 600 people.  The autosomal recessive form of this condition is very rare; only a few cases of autosomal recessive oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy have been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by McLeod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome ?
Answer: McLeod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome is rare; approximately 150 cases have been reported worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: Limited information is available about the number of children with IBS. Older studies have reported prevalence rates for recurrent abdominal pain in children of 10 to 20 percent.1 However, these studies did not differentiate IBS from functional abdominal pain, indigestion, and abdominal migraine. One study of children in North America found that 14 percent of high school students and 6 percent of middle school students have IBS. The study also found that IBS affects boys and girls equally.2
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by familial exudative vitreoretinopathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy is unknown. It appears to be rare, although affected people with normal vision may never come to medical attention.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Fructosuria ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Fructosuria? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Fructosuria. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Impairment of fructose metabolism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is the outlook for Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis ?
Answer: Corticosteroid therapy typically helps hasten recovery from most ADEM symptoms. The long-term prognosis for individuals with ADEM is generally favorable. For most individuals, recovery begins within days, and within six months the majority of ADEM patients will have total or near total recoveries. Others may have mild to moderate lifelong impairment ranging from cognitive difficulties, weakness, loss of vision, or numbness. Severe cases of ADEM can be fatal but this is a very rare occurrence. ADEM can recur, usually within months of the initial diagnosis, and is treated by restarting corticosteroids. A small fraction of individuals who are initially diagnosed as having ADEM can go on to develop MS, but there is currently no method or known risk factors to predict whom those individuals will be.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis ?
Answer: Mutations in the NTRK1 gene cause CIPA. The NTRK1 gene provides instructions for making a receptor protein that attaches (binds) to another protein called NGF. The NTRK1 receptor is important for the survival of nerve cells (neurons).  The NTRK1 receptor is found on the surface of cells, particularly neurons that transmit pain, temperature, and touch sensations (sensory neurons). When the NGF protein binds to the NTRK1 receptor, signals are transmitted inside the cell that tell the cell to grow and divide, and that help it survive. Mutations in the NTRK1 gene lead to a protein that cannot transmit signals. Without the proper signaling, neurons die by a process of self-destruction called apoptosis. Loss of sensory neurons leads to the inability to feel pain in people with CIPA. In addition, people with CIPA lose the nerves leading to their sweat glands, which causes the anhidrosis seen in affected individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Dowling-Degos disease ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Dowling-Degos disease:  - Cleveland Clinic: Skin Care Concerns  - Genetic Testing Registry: Reticulate acropigmentation of Kitamura   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Ulcerative Colitis ?
Answer: The most common signs and symptoms of ulcerative colitis are diarrhea with blood or pus and abdominal discomfort. Other signs and symptoms include
                
- an urgent need to have a bowel movement  - feeling tired  - nausea or loss of appetite  - weight loss  - fever  - anemiaa condition in which the body has fewer red blood cells than normal
                
Less common symptoms include
                
- joint pain or soreness  - eye irritation  - certain rashes
                
The symptoms a person experiences can vary depending on the severity of the inflammation and where it occurs in the intestine. When symptoms first appear,
                
- most people with ulcerative colitis have mild to moderate symptoms  - about 10 percent of people can have severe symptoms, such as frequent, bloody bowel movements; fevers; and severe abdominal cramping1
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) adiposis dolorosa ?
Answer: Adiposis dolorosa is a condition characterized by painful folds of fatty (adipose) tissue or the growth of multiple noncancerous (benign) fatty tumors called lipomas. This condition occurs most often in women who are overweight or obese, and signs and symptoms typically appear between ages 35 and 50.  In people with adiposis dolorosa, abnormal fatty tissue or lipomas can occur anywhere on the body but are most often found on the torso, buttocks, and upper parts of the arms and legs. Lipomas usually feel like firm bumps (nodules) under the skin. The growths cause burning or aching that can be severe. In some people, the pain comes and goes, while in others it is continuous. Movement or pressure on adipose tissue or lipomas can make the pain worse.  Other signs and symptoms that have been reported to occur with adiposis dolorosa include general weakness and tiredness (fatigue), depression, irritability, confusion, recurrent seizures (epilepsy), and a progressive decline in intellectual function (dementia). These problems do not occur in everyone with adiposis dolorosa, and it is unclear whether they are directly related to the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) High Blood Pressure ?
Answer: Espaol
                
High blood pressure is a common disease in which blood flows through blood vessels (arteries) at higher than normal pressures.
                
Measuring Blood Pressure
                
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood. High blood pressure, sometimes called hypertension, happens when this force is too high. Health care workers check blood pressure readings the same way for children, teens, and adults. They use a gauge, stethoscope or electronic sensor, and a blood pressure cuff. With this equipment, they measure:
                
Systolic Pressure: blood pressure when the heart beats while pumping blood
                
Diastolic Pressure: blood pressure when the heart is at rest between beats
                
Health care workers write blood pressure numbers with the systolic number above the diastolic number. For example:
                

                
118/76 mmHg People read "118 over 76" millimeters of mercury.
                
Normal Blood Pressure
                
Normal blood pressure for adults is defined as a systolic pressure below 120 mmHg and a diastolic pressure below 80 mmHg. It is normal for blood pressures to change when you sleep, wake up, or are excited or nervous. When you are active, it is normal for your blood pressure to increase. However, once the activity stops, your blood pressure returns to your normal baseline range.
                
Blood pressure normally rises with age and body size. Newborn babies often have very low blood pressure numbers that are considered normal for babies, while older teens have numbers similar to adults.
                
Abnormal Blood Pressure
                
Abnormal increases in blood pressure are defined as having blood pressures higher than 120/80 mmHg. The following table outlines and defines high blood pressure severity levels.
                
Stages of High Blood Pressure in Adults
                
The ranges in the table are blood pressure guides for adults who do not have any short-term serious illnesses. People with diabetes or chronic kidney disease should keep their blood pressure below 130/80 mmHg.
                
Although blood pressure increases seen in prehypertension are less than those used to diagnose high blood pressure, prehypertension can progress to high blood pressure and should be taken seriously. Over time, consistently high blood pressure weakens and damages your blood vessels, which can lead to complications.
                
Types of High Blood Pressure
                
There are two main types of high blood pressure: primary and secondary high blood pressure.
                
Primary High Blood Pressure
                
Primary, or essential, high blood pressure is the most common type of high blood pressure. This type of high blood pressure tends to develop over years as a person ages.
                
Secondary High Blood Pressure
                
Secondary high blood pressure is caused by another medical condition or use of certain medicines. This type usually resolves after the cause is treated or removed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What causes Systemic scleroderma ?
Answer: What causes systemic scleroderma? The exact, underlying cause of systemic sclerosis is unknown. The cause appears to involve some injury to the cells that line blood vessels, resulting in excessive activation of dermal connective tissue cells, called fibroblasts. Fibroblasts normally produce collagen and other proteins. Build-up of collagen in the skin and other organs causes the signs and symptoms of the condition. It is suspected that scleroderma may develop from a variety of factors, which may include: Abnormal immune or inflammatory activity Genetic susceptibility: while no specific genes are thought to cause scleroderma, certain genes (or combination of genes) may increase a person's risk to be affected. However, the condition is not passed directly from parents to children. Environmental triggers: suspected triggers may include infections; injury; drugs (e.g. vitamin K, cocaine, penicillamine, appetite suppressants and some chemotherapeutic agents); and chemicals (e.g. silica, organic solvents, pesticides, aliphatic hydrocarbons and epoxy resin). Hormones: because women develop scleroderma more often than men, researchers suspect that hormones may play a role. However, the role of female hormones has not been proven. Widespread scleroderma can also occur in association with other autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus and polymyositis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy ?
Answer: Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) is an uncommon form of epilepsy that runs in families. This disorder causes seizures that usually occur at night (nocturnally) while an affected person is sleeping. Some people with ADNFLE also have seizures during the day.  The seizures characteristic of ADNFLE tend to occur in clusters, with each one lasting from a few seconds to a few minutes. Some people have mild seizures that simply cause them to wake up from sleep. Others have more severe episodes that can include sudden, repetitive movements such as flinging or throwing motions of the arms and bicycling movements of the legs. The person may get out of bed and wander around, which can be mistaken for sleepwalking. The person may also cry out or make moaning, gasping, or grunting sounds. These episodes are sometimes misdiagnosed as nightmares, night terrors, or panic attacks.  In some types of epilepsy, including ADNFLE, a pattern of neurological symptoms called an aura often precedes a seizure. The most common symptoms associated with an aura in people with ADNFLE are tingling, shivering, a sense of fear, dizziness (vertigo), and a feeling of falling or being pushed. Some affected people have also reported a feeling of breathlessness, overly fast breathing (hyperventilation), or choking. It is unclear what brings on seizures in people with ADNFLE. Episodes may be triggered by stress or fatigue, but in most cases the seizures do not have any recognized triggers.  The seizures associated with ADNFLE can begin anytime from infancy to mid-adulthood, but most begin in childhood. The episodes tend to become milder and less frequent with age. In most affected people, the seizures can be effectively controlled with medication.  Most people with ADNFLE are intellectually normal, and there are no problems with their brain function between seizures. However, some people with ADNFLE have experienced psychiatric disorders (such as schizophrenia), behavioral problems, or intellectual disability. It is unclear whether these additional features are directly related to epilepsy in these individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy ?
Answer: How might pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy be treated? Anticonvulsant drugs, which are usually given to control seizures, are ineffective in people with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. Instead, people with this type of seizure are medically treated with large daily doses of pyridoxine (a type of vitamin B6 found in food). Recent studies have focused on using a lysine-restricted diet in addition to pyridoxine. Preliminary results suggest that this treatment has the potential to help control seizures and improve developmental outcomes in children with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Hirschsprung's disease ?
Answer: Hirschsprung disease is a disease of the large intestine or colon. People with this disease do not have the nerve cells in the intestine required to expel stools from the body normally. Symptoms of Hirschsprung disease usually show up in very young children, but sometimes not until adolescence or adulthood. The symptoms may vary with age, but often involve constipation and/or obstruction of the bowel.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Weaver syndrome ?
Answer: Weaver syndrome is usually caused by mutations in the EZH2 gene. The EZH2 gene provides instructions for making a type of enzyme called a histone methyltransferase. Histone methyltransferases modify proteins called histones, which are structural proteins that attach (bind) to DNA and give chromosomes their shape. By adding a molecule called a methyl group to histones (methylation), histone methyltransferases can turn off the activity of certain genes, which is an essential process in normal development. It is unclear how mutations in the EZH2 gene result in the abnormalities characteristic of Weaver syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Dementia With Lewy Bodies ?
Answer: There is no cure for DLB. Treatments are aimed at controlling the cognitive, psychiatric, and motor symptoms of the disorder. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, such as donepezil and rivastigmine, are primarily used to treat the cognitive symptoms of DLB, but they may also be of some benefit in reducing the psychiatric and motor symptoms. Doctors tend to avoid prescribing antipsychotics for hallucinatory symptoms of DLB because of the risk that neuroleptic sensitivity could worsen the motor symptoms. Some individuals with DLB may benefit from the use of levodopa for their rigidity and loss of spontaneous movement.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) chylomicron retention disease ?
Answer: Chylomicron retention disease is an inherited disorder that affects the absorption of dietary fats, cholesterol, and certain fat-soluble vitamins. As food is digested after a meal, molecules called chylomicrons are formed to carry fat and cholesterol from the intestine into the bloodstream. Chylomicrons are also necessary for the absorption of certain fat-soluble vitamins, such as vitamin E and vitamin D. A lack of chylomicron transport causes severely decreased absorption (malabsorption) of dietary fats and fat-soluble vitamins. Sufficient levels of fats, cholesterol, and vitamins are necessary for normal growth and development.  The signs and symptoms of chylomicron retention disease appear in the first few months of life. They can include failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive); diarrhea; and fatty, foul-smelling stools (steatorrhea). Other features of this disorder may develop later in childhood and often impair the function of the nervous system. Affected people may eventually develop decreased reflexes (hyporeflexia) and a decreased ability to feel vibrations.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Jejunal atresia ?
Answer: How might jejunal atresia be treated? Jejunal atresia is typically treated with surgery. Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is generally necessary for a period of time following surgery until normal meals are tolerated.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Parasites - Ascariasis ?
Answer: The standard method for diagnosing ascariasis is by identifying Ascaris eggs in a stool sample using a microscope. Because eggs may be difficult to find in light infections, a concentration procedure is recommended.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: Is Tourette syndrome inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of Tourette syndrome is unclear. Although the features of this condition can cluster in families, many genetic and environmental factors are likely to be involved. Among family members of an affected person, it is difficult to predict who else may be at risk of developing the condition.  Tourette syndrome was previously thought to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which suggests that one mutated copy of a gene in each cell would be sufficient to cause the condition. Several decades of research have shown that this is not the case. Almost all cases of Tourette syndrome probably result from a variety of genetic and environmental factors, not changes in a single gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Frasier syndrome ?
Answer: Frasier syndrome is thought to be a rare condition; approximately 50 cases have been described in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Carpal Tunnel Syndrome ?
Answer: Initial treatment generally involves immobilizing the wrist in a splint, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to temporarily reduce swelling, and injections of corticosteroid drugs (such as prednisone). For more severe cases, surgery may be recommended.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) cyclic neutropenia ?
Answer: Cyclic neutropenia is a disorder that causes frequent infections and other health problems in affected individuals. People with this condition have recurrent episodes of neutropenia during which there is a shortage (deficiency) of neutrophils. Neutrophils are a type of white blood cell that plays a role in inflammation and in fighting infection. The episodes of neutropenia are apparent at birth or soon afterward. For most affected individuals, neutropenia recurs every 21 days and lasts about 3 to 5 days.  Neutropenia makes it more difficult for the body to fight off pathogens such as bacteria and viruses, so people with cyclic neutropenia typically develop recurrent infections of the sinuses, respiratory tract, and skin. Additionally, people with this condition often develop open sores (ulcers) in the mouth and colon, inflammation of the throat (pharyngitis) and gums (gingivitis), recurrent fever, or abdominal pain. People with cyclic neutropenia have these health problems only during episodes of neutropenia. At times when their neutrophil levels are normal, they are not at an increased risk of infection and inflammation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Partington syndrome ?
Answer: How might Partington syndrome be treated? The treatment of Partington syndrome is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. For example, dystonia of the hands and other parts of the body may be treated with a variety of therapies including medications and/or physical therapy. Speech therapy may be recommended for children with dysarthria. Medications may be prescribed to help prevent and/or control recurrent seizures. Children with mild to moderate intellectual disability may benefit from special education services. For personalized information about the treatment and management of Partington syndrome, please speak to a healthcare provider.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Light chain deposition disease ?
Answer: Light chain deposition disease (LCDD) involves the immune system, the body's system of protecting ourselves against infection. The body fights infection with antibodies. Antibodies are made up of small protein segments called light chains and heavy chains. People with LCDD make  too many light chains which get deposited in many different tissues and organs of the body. While LCDD can occur in any organ, the kidneys are always involved. Deposits of light chains can also occur in the liver, heart, small intestine, spleen, skin, nervous system and bone marrow. Additionally, about 50-60% of patients with LCDD have multiple myeloma and 17% have a disease called monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS). Early signs and symptoms of light chain deposition disease may include protein in the urine, high blood pressure, decreased kidney function, and nephrotic syndrome. The goal of treatment in patients with LCDD is to stop/decrease the production of light chains and damage to organs. Treatment options can include: autologous stem cell transplantation; a drug called Bortezomib; a class of drugs called immunomodulatory drugs; and kidney transplant.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for GRN-related frontotemporal dementia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of GRN-related frontotemporal dementia:  - Family Caregiver Alliance  - Gene Review: Gene Review: GRN-Related Frontotemporal Dementia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Frontotemporal dementia, ubiquitin-positive   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Early infantile epileptic encephalopathy 4 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Early infantile epileptic encephalopathy 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Early infantile epileptic encephalopathy 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Absent speech - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebral atrophy - Cerebral hypomyelination - Developmental regression - EEG with burst suppression - Epileptic encephalopathy - Epileptic spasms - Generalized myoclonic seizures - Generalized tonic seizures - Generalized tonic-clonic seizures - Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum - Hypsarrhythmia - Impaired horizontal smooth pursuit - Infantile encephalopathy - Intellectual disability, severe - Muscular hypotonia - Neonatal onset - Severe global developmental delay - Spastic paraplegia - Spastic tetraplegia - Status epilepticus - Tremor - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Hypophosphatasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hypophosphatasia? The signs and symptoms of hypophosphatasia vary widely and can appear anywhere from before birth to adulthood. The most severe forms of the disorder tend to occur before birth and in early infancy. Hypophosphatasia weakens and softens the bones, causing skeletal abnormalities similar to another childhood bone disorder called rickets. Affected infants are born with short limbs, an abnormally shaped chest, and soft skull bones. Additional complications in infancy include poor feeding and a failure to gain weight, respiratory problems, and high levels of calcium in the blood (hypercalcemia), which can lead to recurrent vomiting and kidney problems. These complications are life-threatening in some cases. The forms of hypophosphatasia that appear in childhood or adulthood are typically less severe than those that appear in infancy. Early loss of primary (baby) teeth is one of the first signs of the condition in children. Affected children may have short stature with bowed legs or knock knees, enlarged wrist and ankle joints, and an abnormal skull shape. Adult forms of hypophosphatasia are characterized by a softening of the bones known as osteomalacia. In adults, recurrent fractures in the foot and thigh bones can lead to chronic pain. Affected adults may lose their secondary (adult) teeth prematurely and are at increased risk for joint pain and inflammation. The mildest form of this condition, called odontohypophosphatasia, only affects the teeth. People with this disorder typically experience abnormal tooth development and premature tooth loss, but do not have the skeletal abnormalities seen in other forms of hypophosphatasia. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hypophosphatasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Abnormality of the teeth 90% Bowing of the long bones 90% Craniosynostosis 90% Emphysema 90% Narrow chest 90% Sacrococcygeal pilonidal abnormality 90% Short stature 90% Anemia 50% Behavioral abnormality 50% Hypercalcemia 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Recurrent fractures 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Seizures 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome ?
Answer: How might blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome be treated? Treatment of blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome varies depending on the severity and location of the affected areas. Skin spots do not usually require treatment, but some individuals with this condition may want treatment for cosmetic reasons or if the location of the nevus causes discomfort or affects normal function. Bleeding in the intestines may be treated with iron supplements and blood transfusions when necessary. Surgery to remove an affected area of bowel may be recommended for repeated or severe bleeding (hemorrhage).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 7 ?
Answer: Osteopetrosis is a bone disease that makes bones abnormally dense and prone to breakage (fracture). Researchers have described several major types of osteopetrosis, which are usually distinguished by their pattern of inheritance: autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked. The different types of the disorder can also be distinguished by the severity of their signs and symptoms. Mutations in at least nine genes cause the various types of osteopetrosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy ?
Answer: ADVIRC is considered a rare disease. Its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Treacher Collins syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the TCOF1, POLR1C, or POLR1D gene can cause Treacher Collins syndrome. TCOF1 gene mutations are the most common cause of the disorder, accounting for 81 to 93 percent of all cases. POLR1C and POLR1D gene mutations cause an additional 2 percent of cases. In individuals without an identified mutation in one of these genes, the genetic cause of the condition is unknown.  The proteins produced from the TCOF1, POLR1C, and POLR1D genes all appear to play important roles in the early development of bones and other tissues of the face. These proteins are involved in the production of a molecule called ribosomal RNA (rRNA), a chemical cousin of DNA. Ribosomal RNA helps assemble protein building blocks (amino acids) into new proteins, which is essential for the normal functioning and survival of cells. Mutations in the TCOF1, POLR1C, or POLR1D gene reduce the production of rRNA. Researchers speculate that a decrease in the amount of rRNA may trigger the self-destruction (apoptosis) of certain cells involved in the development of facial bones and tissues. The abnormal cell death could lead to the specific problems with facial development found in Treacher Collins syndrome. However, it is unclear why the effects of a reduction in rRNA are limited to facial development.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Situs inversus ?
Answer: Situs inversus is a condition in which the arrangement of the internal organs is a mirror image of normal anatomy. It can occur alone (isolated, with no other abnormalities or conditions) or it can occur as part of a syndrome with various other defects. Congenital heart defects are present in about 5-10% of affected people. The underlying cause and genetics of situs inversus are complex. Familial cases have been reported.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Spinal and Bulbar Muscular Atrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Bulbo-spinal atrophy X-linked  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Muscle Atrophy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ?
Answer: Experts do not know the exact cause of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. About 25 to 30 percent of gastrinomas are caused by an inherited genetic disorder called multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1).1 MEN1 causes hormone-releasing tumors in the endocrine glands and the duodenum. Symptoms of MEN1 include increased hormone levels in the blood, kidney stones, diabetes, muscle weakness, weakened bones, and fractures.
                
More information about MEN1 is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) mannose-binding lectin deficiency ?
Answer: Mannose-binding lectin deficiency is a condition that affects the immune system. People with this condition have low levels of an immune system protein called mannose-binding lectin in their blood. These individuals are prone to recurrent infections, including infections of the upper respiratory tract and other body systems. People with this condition may also contract more serious infections such as pneumonia and meningitis. Depending on the type of infection, the symptoms caused by the infections vary in frequency and severity.  Infants and young children with mannose-binding lectin deficiency seem to be more susceptible to infections, but adults can also develop recurrent infections. In addition, affected individuals undergoing chemotherapy or taking drugs that suppress the immune system are especially prone to infections.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Hypoglycemia ?
Answer: Hypoglycemia causes symptoms such as
                
- hunger  - shakiness  - nervousness  - sweating  - dizziness or light-headedness  - sleepiness  - confusion  - difficulty speaking  - anxiety  - weakness
                
Hypoglycemia can also happen during sleep. Some signs of hypoglycemia during sleep include
                
- crying out or having nightmares  - finding pajamas or sheets damp from perspiration  - feeling tired, irritable, or confused after waking up
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is congenital mirror movement disorder inherited ?
Answer: In most cases, including those caused by mutations in the DCC or RAD51 gene, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the altered gene. Some people who have the altered gene never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance.  Research suggests that in rare cases, this condition may be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis? ?
Answer: People who repeatedly breathe in foreign substances are at risk for hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP). These substances, which also are known as antigens, include molds, dusts, and chemicals. However, most people who breathe in these substances don't develop HP.
                
People at increased risk include:
                
Farm and dairy cattle workers
                
People who use hot tubs often
                
People who are exposed to molds or dusts from humidifiers, heating systems, or wet carpeting
                
Bird fanciers (people who keep pet birds) and poultry handlers
                
Florists and landscapers, especially those who use liquid chemicals on lawns and gardens
                
People who work in grain and flour processing and loading
                
Lumber milling, construction, wood stripping, and paper and wallboard workers
                
People who make plastics or electronics, and those who paint or work with other chemicals
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What causes Heart Failure ?
Answer: Heart failure is caused by other diseases and conditions that damage the heart muscle. It is most commonly caused by coronary artery disease, including heart attack. Diabetes and high blood pressure also contribute to heart failure risk. People who have had a heart attack are at high risk of developing heart failure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin. Symptoms of type 2 diabetes may develop gradually and can be subtle; some people with type 2 diabetes remain undiagnosed for years.
                
Type 2 diabetes develops most often in middle-aged and older people who are also overweight or obese. The disease, once rare in youth, is becoming more common in overweight and obese children and adolescents. Scientists think genetic susceptibility and environmental factors are the most likely triggers of type 2 diabetes.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Genes play a significant part in susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. Having certain genes or combinations of genes may increase or decrease a persons risk for developing the disease. The role of genes is suggested by the high rate of type 2 diabetes in families and identical twins and wide variations in diabetes prevalence by ethnicity. Type 2 diabetes occurs more frequently in African Americans, Alaska Natives, American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, and some Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islander Americans than it does in non-Hispanic whites.
                
Recent studies have combined genetic data from large numbers of people, accelerating the pace of gene discovery. Though scientists have now identified many gene variants that increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, the majority have yet to be discovered. The known genes appear to affect insulin production rather than insulin resistance. Researchers are working to identify additional gene variants and to learn how they interact with one another and with environmental factors to cause diabetes.
                
Studies have shown that variants of the TCF7L2 gene increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. For people who inherit two copies of the variants, the risk of developing type 2 diabetes is about 80 percent higher than for those who do not carry the gene variant.1 However, even in those with the variant, diet and physical activity leading to weight loss help delay diabetes, according to the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), a major clinical trial involving people at high risk.
                
Genes can also increase the risk of diabetes by increasing a persons tendency to become overweight or obese. One theory, known as the thrifty gene hypothesis, suggests certain genes increase the efficiency of metabolism to extract energy from food and store the energy for later use. This survival trait was advantageous for populations whose food supplies were scarce or unpredictable and could help keep people alive during famine. In modern times, however, when high-calorie foods are plentiful, such a trait can promote obesity and type 2 diabetes.
                
Obesity and Physical Inactivity
                
Physical inactivity and obesity are strongly associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. People who are genetically susceptible to type 2 diabetes are more vulnerable when these risk factors are present.
                
An imbalance between caloric intake and physical activity can lead to obesity, which causes insulin resistance and is common in people with type 2 diabetes. Central obesity, in which a person has excess abdominal fat, is a major risk factor not only for insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes but also for heart and blood vessel disease, also called cardiovascular disease (CVD). This excess belly fat produces hormones and other substances that can cause harmful, chronic effects in the body such as damage to blood vessels.
                
The DPP and other studies show that millions of people can lower their risk for type 2 diabetes by making lifestyle changes and losing weight. The DPP proved that people with prediabetesat high risk of developing type 2 diabetescould sharply lower their risk by losing weight through regular physical activity and a diet low in fat and calories. In 2009, a follow-up study of DPP participantsthe Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS)showed that the benefits of weight loss lasted for at least 10 years after the original study began.2
                
Read more about the DPP, funded under National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical trial number NCT00004992, and the DPPOS, funded under NIH clinical trial number NCT00038727 in  Diabetes Prevention Program.
                
Insulin Resistance
                
Insulin resistance is a common condition in people who are overweight or obese, have excess abdominal fat, and are not physically active. Muscle, fat, and liver cells stop responding properly to insulin, forcing the pancreas to compensate by producing extra insulin. As long as beta cells are able to produce enough insulin, blood glucose levels stay in the normal range. But when insulin production falters because of beta cell dysfunction, glucose levels rise, leading to prediabetes or diabetes.
                
Abnormal Glucose Production by the Liver
                
In some people with diabetes, an abnormal increase in glucose production by the liver also contributes to high blood glucose levels. Normally, the pancreas releases the hormone glucagon when blood glucose and insulin levels are low. Glucagon stimulates the liver to produce glucose and release it into the bloodstream. But when blood glucose and insulin levels are high after a meal, glucagon levels drop, and the liver stores excess glucose for later, when it is needed. For reasons not completely understood, in many people with diabetes, glucagon levels stay higher than needed. High glucagon levels cause the liver to produce unneeded glucose, which contributes to high blood glucose levels. Metformin, the most commonly used drug to treat type 2 diabetes, reduces glucose production by the liver.
                
The Roles of Insulin and Glucagon in Normal Blood Glucose Regulation
                
A healthy persons body keeps blood glucose levels in a normal range through several complex mechanisms. Insulin and glucagon, two hormones made in the pancreas, help regulate blood glucose levels:
                
- Insulin, made by beta cells, lowers elevated blood glucose levels.  - Glucagon, made by alpha cells, raises low blood glucose levels.
                
- Insulin helps muscle, fat, and liver cells absorb glucose from the bloodstream, lowering blood glucose levels.  - Insulin stimulates the liver and muscle tissue to store excess glucose. The stored form of glucose is called glycogen.  - Insulin also lowers blood glucose levels by reducing glucose production in the liver.
                
- Glucagon signals the liver and muscle tissue to break down glycogen into glucose, which enters the bloodstream and raises blood glucose levels.  - If the body needs more glucose, glucagon stimulates the liver to make glucose from amino acids.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndrome, also called insulin resistance syndrome, refers to a group of conditions common in people with insulin resistance, including
                
- higher than normal blood glucose levels  - increased waist size due to excess abdominal fat  - high blood pressure  - abnormal levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood
                
Cell Signaling and Regulation
                
Cells communicate through a complex network of molecular signaling pathways. For example, on cell surfaces, insulin receptor molecules capture, or bind, insulin molecules circulating in the bloodstream. This interaction between insulin and its receptor prompts the biochemical signals that enable the cells to absorb glucose from the blood and use it for energy.
                
Problems in cell signaling systems can set off a chain reaction that leads to diabetes or other diseases. Many studies have focused on how insulin signals cells to communicate and regulate action. Researchers have identified proteins and pathways that transmit the insulin signal and have mapped interactions between insulin and body tissues, including the way insulin helps the liver control blood glucose levels. Researchers have also found that key signals also come from fat cells, which produce substances that cause inflammation and insulin resistance.
                
This work holds the key to combating insulin resistance and diabetes. As scientists learn more about cell signaling systems involved in glucose regulation, they will have more opportunities to develop effective treatments.
                
Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Scientists think beta cell dysfunction is a key contributor to type 2 diabetes. Beta cell impairment can cause inadequate or abnormal patterns of insulin release. Also, beta cells may be damaged by high blood glucose itself, a condition called glucose toxicity.
                
Scientists have not determined the causes of beta cell dysfunction in most cases. Single gene defects lead to specific forms of diabetes called maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). The genes involved regulate insulin production in the beta cells. Although these forms of diabetes are rare, they provide clues as to how beta cell function may be affected by key regulatory factors. Other gene variants are involved in determining the number and function of beta cells. But these variants account for only a small percentage of type 2 diabetes cases. Malnutrition early in life is also being investigated as a cause of beta cell dysfunction. The metabolic environment of the developing fetus may also create a predisposition for diabetes later in life.
                
Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
                
People who develop type 2 diabetes are more likely to have the following characteristics:
                
- age 45 or older  - overweight or obese  - physically inactive  - parent or sibling with diabetes  - family background that is African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, or Pacific Islander American  - history of giving birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds  - history of gestational diabetes  - high blood pressure140/90 or aboveor being treated for high blood pressure  - high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good, cholesterol below 35 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or a triglyceride level above 250 mg/dL  - polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS  - prediabetesan A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent; a fasting plasma glucose test result of 100125 mg/dL, called impaired fasting glucose; or a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test result of 140199, called impaired glucose tolerance  - acanthosis nigricans, a condition associated with insulin resistance, characterized by a dark, velvety rash around the neck or armpits  - history of CVD
                
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends that testing to detect prediabetes and type 2 diabetes be considered in adults who are overweight or obese and have one or more additional risk factors for diabetes. In adults without these risk factors, testing should begin at age 45.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How to prevent Creating a Family Health History ?
Answer: People can't change the genes they inherit from their parents, but they can change other things to prevent diseases that run in the family. This is good news because many diseases result from a combination of a person's genes, lifestyle, and environment. Actions to reduce the risk of disease may involve lifestyle changes, such as eating healthier foods, exercising more, getting certain medical tests, and taking medicines that are more effective based on your specific genes. Ask your doctor or health care professional for advice.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of 21-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of 21-hydroxylase deficiency? Symptoms can vary greatly from patient to patient with 21-hydroxylase deficiency, as a result distinct forms of this deficiency have been recognized. Three common forms include classical salt wasting, simple virilizing, and nonclassical. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 21-hydroxylase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the thorax - Adrenal hyperplasia - Adrenogenital syndrome - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Fever - Growth abnormality - Gynecomastia - Hypertension - Hypoglycemia - Hypospadias - Renal salt wasting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common. What are the symptoms of classical salt wasting 21-hydroxylase-deficient congenital adrenal hyperplasia? The classical salt wasting form of 21-hydroxylase-deficient is a severe form of 21-hydroxylase deficiency. People with this condition have no 21-hydroxylase function.Within the first week of life newborns may have life threatening salt-wasting crises and low blood pressure. Females are often born with ambiguous genitalia. A close look at the hormone levels in patients with this form of 21-hydroxylase deficiency reveals an increased level of testosterone and rennin, and reduced levels of cortisol and aldosterone. Levels of 17-hydroxyprogesterone is over 5,000 nmol/L. What are the symptoms of simple virilizing 21-hydroxylase-deficient congenital adrenal hyperplasia? Patients with simple virilizing 21-hydroxylase-deficient congenital adrenal hyperplasia have some functioning 21-hydroxylase (about 1%). Females may be born with clitoral enlargement, labial fusion, and sexual ambiguity. Males may present in early childhood with signs of precocious puberty such as very early sexual development, pubic hair development, and/or growth acceleration. Untreated patients have a shorter than average adult height. A close look at hormone levels in patients with simple virilizing 21-hydroxylase deficiency reveal an increased level of testosterone, reduced level of cortisol, normal or increased level of renin, and normal levels of aldosterone. Levels of 17-Hydroxyprogesterone are 2500 to 5000 nmol/L. What are the symptoms of nonclassical 21-hydroxylase-deficient congenital adrenal hyperplasia? People with nonclassical or late-onset 21-hydroxylase-deficient congenital adrenal hyperplasia have 20% to 50% of 21-Hydroxylase activity. They may present in childhood or adulthood with early pubic hair growth or with symptoms of polycystic ovary syndrome. In females symptoms may include excessive hair growth, absent periods, infertility, androgenic alopecia, masculinized genitalia, and acne. Height is likely to be normal. A close look at the hormone levels in patients with the nonclassical type reveal a variably increased level of testosterone and normal levels of aldosterone, renin, and cortisol. Levels of 17-Hydroxyprogesterone are 500 to 2500 nmol/L.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Dry Eye ?
Answer: The cornea is the clear, dome-shaped outer surface that covers the eye in front of the iris, which is the colored part of the eye. The cornea helps protect the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. The cornea is a highly organized, clear structure made up of a group of cells and proteins precisely arranged in layers, but it has no blood vessels to nourish or protect it against infection. Instead, it gets its nourishment from the tears and the watery fluid (aqueous humor) that fill the chamber behind it.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) High Blood Cholesterol ?
Answer: The coronary arteries bring blood to your heart. If plaque builds up in these arteries, the blood may not be able to bring enough oxygen to the heart muscle. This is called coronary heart disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Periventricular Leukomalacia ?
Answer: Periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) is characterized by the death of the white matter of the brain due to softening of the brain tissue. It can affect fetuses or newborns; premature babies are at the greatest risk of the disorder. PVL is caused by a lack of oxygen or blood flow to the periventricular area of the brain, which results in the death or loss of brain tissue. The periventricular area-the area around the spaces in the brain called ventricles-contains nerve fibers that carry messages from the brain to the body's muscles. Although babies with PVL generally have no outward signs or symptoms of the disorder, they are at risk for motor disorders, delayed mental development, coordination problems, and vision and hearing impairments. PVL may be accompanied by a hemorrhage or bleeding in the periventricular-intraventricular area (the area around and inside the ventricles), and can lead to cerebral palsy. The disorder is diagnosed by ultrasound of the head.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is Femoral facial syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is femoral facial syndrome inherited? The vast majority of cases of femoral facial syndrome (FFS) have been sporadic, not inherited. When a condition is sporadic, it means that it occurs in an individual who has no history of the condition in his/her family. Occurrence in more than one family member has been reported in three cases, but no sibling recurrences have been reported. Maternal diabetes has been recognized as a major factor causing FFS in more than 20% of the reported cases. The circumstances of the reported cases in the literature support non-genetic causes of FFS, such as teratogenic exposure. It is theoretically possible that the cause could sometimes be a new gene mutation occurring in the affected individual, or autosomal dominant inheritance with reduced penetrance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by mal de Meleda ?
Answer: Mal de Meleda is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. The disorder was first identified on the Croatian island of Mjlet (called Meleda in Italian) and has since been found in populations worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Kidney Stones in Children ?
Answer: Four major types of kidney stones occur in children:
                
- Calcium stones are the most common type of kidney stone and occur in two major forms: calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate. Calcium oxalate stones are more common. Calcium oxalate stone formation has various causes, which may include high calcium excretion, high oxalate excretion, or acidic urine. Calcium phosphate stones are caused by alkaline urine.  - Uric acid stones form when the urine is persistently acidic. A diet rich in purinessubstances found in animal proteins such as meats, fish, and shellfishmay cause uric acid. If uric acid becomes concentrated in the urine, it can settle and form a stone by itself or along with calcium.  - Struvite stones result from kidney infections. Eliminating infected stones from the urinary tract and staying infectionfree can prevent more struvite stones.  - Cystine stones result from a genetic disorder that causes cystine to leak through the kidneys and into the urine in high concentration, forming crystals that tend to accumulate into stones.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Generalized dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Epidermolysis bullosa  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Squamous Cell Skin Cancer   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Antidepressants
Answer: Summary : Antidepressants are medicines that treat depression. Your doctor can prescribe them for you. They work to balance some of the natural chemicals in our brains. It may take several weeks for them to help. There are several types of antidepressants. You and your doctor may have to try a few before finding what works best for you.    Antidepressants may cause mild side effects that usually do not last long. These may include headache, nausea, sleep problems, restlessness, and sexual problems. Tell your doctor if you have any side effects. You should also let your doctor know if you take any other medicines, vitamins, or herbal supplements.    It is important to keep taking your medicines, even if you feel better. Do not stop taking your medicines without talking to your doctor. You often need to stop antidepressants gradually.    NIH: National Institute of Mental Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is the outlook for Uterine Sarcoma ?
Answer: Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:         - The stage of the cancer.    - The type and size of the tumor.    - The patient's general health.    - Whether the cancer has just been diagnosed or has recurred (come back).
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ?
Answer: Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is the most common spinal abnormality in children. It affects an estimated 2 to 3 percent of children in the U.S.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to prevent Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?
Answer: Researchers have not found a way to prevent childhood nephrotic syndrome when the cause is idiopathic or congenital.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Throat Cancer ?
Answer: Throat cancer is a type of head and neck cancer. Throat cancer has different names, depending on what part of the throat is affected. The different parts of the throat are called the oropharynx, the hypopharynx, and the nasopharynx. Sometimes the larynx, or voice box, is also included.    The main risk factors for throat cancer are smoking or using smokeless tobacco and use of alcohol.    Symptoms of throat cancer may include       - Trouble breathing or speaking    - Frequent headaches    - Pain or ringing in the ears    - Trouble swallowing    - Ear pain       Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.    NIH: National Cancer Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) PDGFRB-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia ?
Answer: PDGFRB-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is a type of cancer of blood-forming cells. It is characterized by an elevated number of white blood cells called eosinophils in the blood. These cells help fight infections by certain parasites and are involved in the inflammation associated with allergic reactions. However, these circumstances do not account for the increased number of eosinophils in PDGFRB-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia. Some people with this condition have an increased number of other types of white blood cells, such as neutrophils or mast cells, in addition to eosinophils. People with this condition can have an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly) or enlarged liver (hepatomegaly). Some affected individuals develop skin rashes, likely as a result of an abnormal immune response due to the increased number of eosinophils.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease ?
Answer: Biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Approximately 48 cases have been reported in the medical literature; most of these are individuals from Arab populations.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Pitt-Hopkins syndrome ?
Answer: Pitt-Hopkins syndrome is thought to be a very rare condition. Approximately 500 affected individuals have been reported worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Vitamin A
Answer: Summary : Vitamins are substances that your body needs to grow and develop normally. Vitamin A plays a role in your       - Vision    - Bone growth    - Reproduction    - Cell functions    - Immune system       Vitamin A is an antioxidant. It can come from plant or animal sources. Plant sources include colorful fruits and vegetables. Animal sources include liver and whole milk. Vitamin A is also added to foods like cereals.    Vegetarians, young children, and alcoholics may need extra Vitamin A. You might also need more if you have certain conditions, such as liver diseases, cystic fibrosis, and Crohn's disease. Check with your health care provider to see if you need to take vitamin A supplements.    NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) hypercholesterolemia ?
Answer: Hypercholesterolemia is a condition characterized by very high levels of cholesterol in the blood. Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that is produced in the body and obtained from foods that come from animals (particularly egg yolks, meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products). The body needs this substance to build cell membranes, make certain hormones, and produce compounds that aid in fat digestion. Too much cholesterol, however, increases a person's risk of developing heart disease.  People with hypercholesterolemia have a high risk of developing a form of heart disease called coronary artery disease. This condition occurs when excess cholesterol in the bloodstream is deposited in the walls of blood vessels, particularly in the arteries that supply blood to the heart (coronary arteries). The abnormal buildup of cholesterol forms clumps (plaque) that narrow and harden artery walls. As the clumps get bigger, they can clog the arteries and restrict the flow of blood to the heart. The buildup of plaque in coronary arteries causes a form of chest pain called angina and greatly increases a person's risk of having a heart attack.  Inherited forms of hypercholesterolemia can also cause health problems related to the buildup of excess cholesterol in other tissues. If cholesterol accumulates in tendons, it causes characteristic growths called tendon xanthomas. These growths most often affect the Achilles tendons and tendons in the hands and fingers. Yellowish cholesterol deposits under the skin of the eyelids are known as xanthelasmata. Cholesterol can also accumulate at the edges of the clear, front surface of the eye (the cornea), leading to a gray-colored ring called an arcus cornealis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to prevent Parasites - Paragonimiasis (also known as Paragonimus Infection) ?
Answer: Never eat raw freshwater crabs or crayfish. Cook crabs and crayfish for to at least 145F (~63C). Travelers should be advised to avoid traditional meals containing undercooked freshwater crustaceans.
    
More on: Fight BAC: Safe Food Handling
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the treatments for Fanconi anemia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Fanconi anemia:  - Cincinnati Children's Hospital: Fanconi Anemia Comprehensive Care Center  - Fanconi Anemia Research Fund: Fanconi Anemia Guidelines for Diagnosis and Management  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Fanconi Anemia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group A  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group B  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group C  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group D1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group D2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group E  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group F  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group G  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group I  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group J  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group L  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group M  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group N  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group O  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fanconi anemia, complementation group P  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Fanconi's Anemia  - National Cancer Institute: Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia Treatment PDQ  - National Cancer Institute: Myelodysplastic Syndromes Treatment PDQ  - National Heart Lung and Blood Institute: How is Fanconi Anemia Treated?  - The Rockefeller University: International Fanconi Anemia Registry   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia ?
Answer: Familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia can be caused by mutations in the PRRT2 gene. The function of the protein produced from this gene is unknown, although it is thought to be involved in the development and function of the brain. Studies suggest that the PRRT2 protein interacts with a protein that helps control signaling between nerve cells (neurons). It is thought that PRRT2 gene mutations, which reduce the amount of PRRT2 protein, lead to abnormal neuronal signaling. Altered neuronal activity could underlie the movement problems associated with familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia.  Not everyone with this condition has a mutation in the PRRT2 gene. When no PRRT2 gene mutations are found, the cause of the condition is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease ?
Answer: Childhood interstitial lung disease (chILD) has many signs and symptoms because the disease has many forms. Signs and symptoms may include:
                
Fast breathing, which also is called tachypnea (tak-ip-NE-ah)
                
Labored breathing, which also is called respiratory distress
                
Low oxygen levels in the blood, which also is called hypoxemia (hi-POK-se-ah)
                
Recurrent coughing, wheezing, or crackling sounds in the chest
                
Shortness of breath during exercise (in older children) or while eating (in infants), which also is called dyspnea (disp-NE-ah)
                
Poor growth or failure to gain weight
                
Recurrent pneumonia or bronchiolitis
                
If your child has any of these signs and symptoms, contact his or her doctor. The doctor may refer you to a pediatric pulmonologist. This is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating children who have lung diseases and conditions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: Is Cornelia de Lange syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Cornelia de Lange syndrome inherited? Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) can be inherited in an autosomal dominant (NIPBL, SMC2, or RAD21) or X-linked (SMC1A or HDAC8) manner depending on the underlying genetic cause. However, most cases (more than 99%) result from new (de novo) mutations and occur in people with no family history of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Tracheobronchomalacia ?
Answer: How is tracheobronchomalacia diagnosed? A diagnosis of tracheobronchomalacia (TBM) may be suspected based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms or abnormal pulmonary function tests. Additional testing such as CT scan and bronchoscopy can then be performed to confirm the diagnosis and evaluate the severity of the condition. TBM is considered mild if the trachea narrows to 50% of its initial size while the affected person is breathing out, moderate if it narrows to 25%, and severe if the walls of the trachea touch.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Fires
Answer: Summary : Whether a fire happens in your home or in the wild, it can be very dangerous. Fire spreads quickly. There is no time to gather valuables or make a phone call. In just two minutes, a fire can become life-threatening. In five minutes, a home can be engulfed in flames.    Heat and smoke from fire can be more dangerous than the flames. Inhaling the super-hot air can burn your lungs. Fire produces poisonous gases that make you disoriented and drowsy. Instead of being awakened by a fire, you may fall into a deeper sleep. You can suffocate or be burned.    Preventing fires is an important part of fire safety. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a fire, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan. Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope.    Federal Emergency Management Agency
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Lucey-Driscoll syndrome ?
Answer: Lucey-Driscoll syndrome, a form of transient familial hyperbilirubinemia, is a rare metabolic disorder that leads to very high levels of bilirubin in a newborn's blood. Babies with this disorder may be born with severe jaundice (yellow skin), yellow eyes and lethargy. It occurs when the body does not properly break down (metabolize) a certain form of bilirubin.  If untreated, this condition can cause seizures, neurologic problems (kernicterus) and even death. Treatment for Lucey-Driscoll syndrome includes phototherapy with blue light (to treat the high level of bilirubin in the blood) and an exchange transfusion is sometimes necessary. Different inheritance patterns have been reported and in some cases, it occurs in individuals with no family history of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Hirschsprung disease ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Hirschsprung disease:  - Cedars-Sinai: Treating Hirschsprung's Disease (Colonic Aganglionosis)  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hirschsprung Disease Overview  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hirschsprung disease 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hirschsprung disease 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hirschsprung disease 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hirschsprung disease 4  - North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition: Hirschsprung's Disease  - Seattle Children's: Hirschsprung's Disease: Symptoms and Diagnosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Machado-Joseph Disease ?
Answer: The severity of the disease is related to the age of onset, with earlier onset associated with more severe forms of the disease. Symptoms can begin any time between early adolescence and about 70 years of age. MJD is a progressive disease, meaning that symptoms get worse with time. Life expectancy ranges from the mid-thirties for those with severe forms of MJD to a normal life expectancy for those with mild forms. The cause of death for those who die early is often aspiration pneumonia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Alexander disease ?
Answer: Mutations in the GFAP gene cause Alexander disease. The GFAP gene provides instructions for making a protein called glial fibrillary acidic protein. Several molecules of this protein bind together to form intermediate filaments, which provide support and strength to cells. Mutations in the GFAP gene lead to the production of a structurally altered glial fibrillary acidic protein. The altered protein is thought to impair the formation of normal intermediate filaments. As a result, the abnormal glial fibrillary acidic protein likely accumulates in astroglial cells, leading to the formation of Rosenthal fibers, which impair cell function. It is not well understood how impaired astroglial cells contribute to the abnormal formation or maintenance of myelin, leading to the signs and symptoms of Alexander disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome ?
Answer: Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS) is a congenital disorder that affects development of the limbs, head, and face. Findings might include an extra finger or toe (polydactyly), fusion of the skin between the fingers or toes (syndactyly), widely spaced eyes (ocular hypertelorism), and an abnormally large head size (macrocephaly).The features of this syndrome are highly variable, ranging from polydactyly and syndactyly of the upper and/or lower limbs to seizure, hydrocephalus , and intellectual disability. Progression of GCPS is dependent on severity. Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome is caused by mutations in the GLI3 gene. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Treatment is symptomatic.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ?
Answer: Tests that examine the blood and bone marrow are used to detect (find) and diagnose chronic myelogenous leukemia.. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease such as an enlarged spleen. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   Complete blood count (CBC) with differential : A procedure in which a sample of blood is drawn and checked for the following:                -  The number of red blood cells and platelets.      - The number and type of white blood cells.      - The amount of hemoglobin (the protein that carries oxygen) in the red blood cells.      - The portion of the blood sample made up of red blood cells.              -   Blood chemistry studies : A procedure in which a blood sample is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances released into the blood by organs and tissues in the body. An unusual (higher or lower than normal) amount of a substance can be a sign of disease.     -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow, blood, and a small piece of bone by inserting a needle into the hipbone or breastbone. A pathologist views the bone marrow, blood, and bone under a microscope to look for abnormal cells. One of the following tests may be done on the samples of blood or bone marrow tissue that are removed:                -  Cytogenetic analysis: A test in which cells in a sample of blood or bone marrow are viewed under a microscope to look for certain changes in the chromosomes, such as the Philadelphia chromosome.      -  FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization): A laboratory technique used to look at genes or chromosomes in cells and tissues. Pieces of DNA that contain a fluorescent dye are made in the laboratory and added to cells or tissues on a glass slide. When these pieces of DNA bind to specific genes or areas of chromosomes on the slide, they light up when viewed under a microscope with a special light.       -  Reverse transcriptionpolymerase chain reaction (RTPCR): A laboratory test in which cells in a sample of tissue are studied using chemicals to look for certain changes in the structure or function of genes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Dry Mouth ?
Answer: Dry mouth is the feeling that there is not enough saliva in the mouth. Everyone has dry mouth once in a while -- if they are nervous, upset, under stress, or taking certain medications. But if you have dry mouth all or most of the time, see a dentist or physician. Many older adults have dry mouth, but it is not a normal part of aging. (Watch the video to learn more about dry mouth. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) Why Saliva is Important Saliva does more than keep your mouth wet. It protects teeth from decay, helps heal sores in your mouth, and prevents infection by controlling bacteria, viruses, and fungi in the mouth. Saliva helps digest food and helps us chew and swallow. Saliva is involved in taste perception as well. Each of these functions of saliva is hampered when a person has dry mouth. How Dry Mouth Feels Dry mouth can be uncomfortable. Some people notice a sticky, dry feeling in the mouth. Others notice a burning feeling or difficulty while eating. The throat may feel dry, too, making swallowing difficult and choking common. Also, people with dry mouth may get mouth sores, cracked lips, and a dry, rough tongue.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Prolactinoma, familial ?
Answer: A prolactinoma is a tumor of the pituitary gland, which controls production of many hormones.  A prolactinoma causes increased levels of the hormone prolactin.  The symptoms of prolactinoma may include unusual milk production (galactorrhea) or no menstrual cycles (amenorrhea) in women or decreased sex drive in men.  Most prolactinomas occur by chance (sporadically); in a small number of cases, prolactinoma may be associated with an inherited condition such as Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) or other genetic factor.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Mevalonic aciduria ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mevalonic aciduria? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mevalonic aciduria. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cerebral cortical atrophy 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Dolichocephaly 90% Microcephaly 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Seizures 90% Short stature 90% Splenomegaly 90% Triangular face 90% Blue sclerae 50% Cataract 50% Incoordination 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Kyphoscoliosis 5% Aciduria - Agenesis of cerebellar vermis - Arthralgia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Cerebral atrophy - Diarrhea - Edema - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Failure to thrive - Fluctuating hepatomegaly - Fluctuating splenomegaly - Large fontanelles - Leukocytosis - Low-set ears - Lymphadenopathy - Morbilliform rash - Normocytic hypoplastic anemia - Nystagmus - Posteriorly rotated ears - Progressive cerebellar ataxia - Skin rash - Thrombocytopenia - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency is disorder that can cause a variety of neurological and neuromuscular problems. The signs and symptoms can be extremely variable among affected individuals and may include mild to severe intellectual disability; developmental delay (especially involving speech); hypotonia; difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia); and/or seizures. Some affected individuals may also have decreased reflexes (hyporeflexia); nystagmus; hyperactivity; and/or behavioral problems. SSADH deficiency is caused by mutations in the ALDH5A1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Management is generally symptomatic and typically focuses on treating seizures and neurobehavioral issues.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Urinary Tract Infection In Adults ?
Answer: Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live in the bowel. The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli) causes the vast majority of UTIs. Microbes called Chlamydia and Mycoplasma can infect the urethra and reproductive system but not the bladder. Chlamydia and Mycoplasma infections may be sexually transmitted and require treatment of sexual partners.
                
The urinary tract has several systems to prevent infection. The points where the ureters attach to the bladder act like one-way valves to prevent urine from backing up toward the kidneys, and urination washes microbes out of the body. In men, the prostate gland produces secretions that slow bacterial growth. In both sexes, immune defenses also prevent infection. But despite these safeguards, infections still occur. Certain bacteria have a strong ability to attach themselves to the lining of the urinary tract.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is beta-ketothiolase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Osteogenesis imperfecta type I ?
Answer: Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a group of genetic disorders that mainly affect the bones. Osteogenesis imperfecta type 1 is the mildest form of OI and is characterized by bone fractures during childhood and adolescence that often result from minor trauma. Fractures occur less frequently in adulthood. People with mild forms of the condition typically have a blue or grey tint to the part of the eye that is usually white (the sclera), and may develop hearing loss in adulthood. Affected individuals are usually of normal or near normal height. Most of the mutations that cause osteogenesis imperfecta type 1 occur in the COL1A1 gene. These genetic changes reduce the amount of type I collagen produced in the body, which causes bones to be brittle and to fracture easily. OI type 1 exhibits an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Nager syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Nager syndrome are sporadic, which means that they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Less commonly, this condition has been found to run in families. When the disorder is familial, it can have an autosomal dominant or an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.  Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, although no genes have been associated with Nager syndrome. In autosomal dominant Nager syndrome, an affected person usually inherits the condition from one affected parent.  Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of a mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Nager syndrome is thought to have an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern when unaffected parents have more than one affected child.  The underlying genetic cause may differ among unrelated individuals with Nager syndrome, even among those with the same pattern of inheritance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by familial Mediterranean fever ?
Answer: Familial Mediterranean fever primarily affects populations originating in the Mediterranean region, particularly people of Armenian, Arab, Turkish, or Jewish ancestry. The disorder affects 1 in 200 to 1,000 people in these populations. It is less common in other populations.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Childhood Immunization
Answer: Summary : Today, children in the United States routinely get vaccines that protect them from more than a dozen diseases such as measles, polio, tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough). Most of these diseases are now at their lowest levels in history, thanks to years of immunization. Children must get at least some vaccines before they may attend school.    Vaccines help make you immune to serious diseases without getting sick first. Without a vaccine, you must actually get a disease in order to become immune to the germ that causes it. Vaccines work best when they are given at certain ages. For example, children don't receive measles vaccine until they are at least one year old. If it is given earlier it might not work as well. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention publishes a schedule for childhood vaccines.    Although some of the vaccines you receive as a child provide protection for many years, adults need immunizations too.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Congenital myasthenic syndrome ?
Answer: Congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS) is a group of genetic disorders that result in muscle weakness and fatigue. Symptoms can range from mild weakness to progressive disabling weakness. There are three main subtypes of CMS, which are defined by how they affect the connection between muscles and the nervous system: postsynaptic (75-80% of patients), synaptic (14-15% of patients), and presynaptic (7-8% of patients). Identification of the specific subtype is important in patient care for determining the most effective treatment. Mutations in many genes have been found to cause CMS, and most forms of CMS are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. One form of CMS, a postsynaptic form known as slow-channel syndrome congenital myasthenic syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Vulvar Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Vulvar cancer is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the vulva.    - Having vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia or HPV infection can affect the risk of vulvar cancer.    - Signs of vulvar cancer include bleeding or itching.    - Tests that examine the vulva are used to detect (find) and diagnose vulvar cancer.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Vulvar cancer is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the vulva.
                    Vulvar cancer forms in a woman's external genitalia. The vulva includes:         - Inner and outer lips of the vagina.    - Clitoris (sensitive tissue between the lips).     - Opening of the vagina and its glands.    - Mons pubis (the rounded area in front of the pubic bones that becomes covered with hair at puberty).    -  Perineum (the area between the vulva and the anus).         Vulvar cancer most often affects the outer vaginal lips. Less often, cancer affects the inner vaginal lips, clitoris, or vaginal glands.    Vulvar cancer usually forms slowly over a number of years. Abnormal cells can grow on the surface of the vulvar skin for a long time. This condition is called vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN). Because it is possible for VIN to become vulvar cancer, it is very important to get treatment.
                
                
                    Having vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia or HPV infection can affect the risk of vulvar cancer.
                    Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for vulvar cancer include the following:         - Having vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN).    - Having human papillomavirus (HPV) infection.    - Having a history of genital warts.        Other possible risk factors include the following:         - Having many sexual partners.    - Having first sexual intercourse at a young age.    - Having a history of abnormal Pap tests (Pap smears).
                          
                
							            Recurrent Vulvar Cancer
							            Recurrent vulvar cancer is cancer that has recurred (come back) after it has been treated. The cancer may come back in the vulva or in other parts of the body.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What causes Liddle syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Liddle syndrome? Liddle syndrome is caused by mutations (changes) in either of two genes: SCNN1B and SCNN1G . The SCNN1B gene provides instructions for making one piece (the beta subunit) of protein complexes called epithelial sodium channels (ENaCs). The SCNN1G gene provides instructions for making a different piece (the gamma subunit) of ENaCs. These channels are found at the surface of certain cells called epithelial cells in many tissues of the body, including the kidneys, lungs, and sweat glands. The ENaC channel transports sodium into cells. Mutations in the SCNN1B and SCNN1G genes associated with Liddle syndrome affect an important region of the protein involved in signaling for its breakdown (degradation). As a result of the mutations, the protein is not tagged for degradation, and more ENaC channels remain at the cell's surface. The increase in channels at the cell surface abnormally increases the reabsorption of sodium, which leads to hypertension. Removal of potassium from the blood is linked with reabsorption of sodium into the blood, so excess sodium reabsorption leads to hypokalemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to prevent Acinetobacter in Healthcare Settings ?
Answer: Acinetobacter can live on the skin and may survive in the environment for several days. Careful attention to infection control procedures, such as hand hygiene and environmental cleaning, can reduce the risk of transmission.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: How many people are affected by Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome ?
Answer: Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteopoikilosis and dacryocystitis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteopoikilosis and dacryocystitis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteopoikilosis and dacryocystitis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Increased bone mineral density 90% Lacrimation abnormality 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Dacrocystitis - Osteopoikilosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for arginase deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of arginase deficiency:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Arginase Deficiency  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Urea Cycle Disorders Overview  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arginase deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hereditary urea cycle abnormality   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Angelman syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Angelman syndrome are not inherited, particularly those caused by a deletion in the maternal chromosome 15 or by paternal uniparental disomy. These genetic changes occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early embryonic development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Rarely, a genetic change responsible for Angelman syndrome can be inherited. For example, it is possible for a mutation in the UBE3A gene or in the nearby region of DNA that controls gene activation to be passed from one generation to the next.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is ring chromosome 14 syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Ring chromosome 14 syndrome is almost never inherited. A ring chromosome typically occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. In some cases, the ring chromosome is present in only some of a person's cells. This situation is known as mosaicism.  Most affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their families. However, at least two families have been reported in which a ring chromosome 14 was passed from a mother to her children.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Wolfram syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the WFS1 gene cause more than 90 percent of Wolfram syndrome type 1 cases. This gene provides instructions for producing a protein called wolframin that is thought to regulate the amount of calcium in cells. A proper calcium balance is important for many different cellular functions, including cell-to-cell communication, the tensing (contraction) of muscles, and protein processing. The wolframin protein is found in many different tissues, such as the pancreas, brain, heart, bones, muscles, lung, liver, and kidneys. Within cells, wolframin is located in the membrane of a cell structure called the endoplasmic reticulum that is involved in protein production, processing, and transport. Wolframin's function is important in the pancreas, where the protein is thought to help process a protein called proinsulin into the mature hormone insulin. This hormone helps control blood sugar levels.  WFS1 gene mutations lead to the production of a wolframin protein that has reduced or absent function. As a result, calcium levels within cells are not regulated and the endoplasmic reticulum does not work correctly. When the endoplasmic reticulum does not have enough functional wolframin, the cell triggers its own cell death (apoptosis). The death of cells in the pancreas, specifically cells that make insulin (beta cells), causes diabetes mellitus in people with Wolfram syndrome. The gradual loss of cells along the optic nerve eventually leads to blindness in affected individuals. The death of cells in other body systems likely causes the various signs and symptoms of Wolfram syndrome type 1.  A certain mutation in the CISD2 gene was found to cause Wolfram syndrome type 2. The CISD2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is located in the outer membrane of cell structures called mitochondria. Mitochondria are the energy-producing centers of cells. The exact function of the CISD2 protein is unknown, but it is thought to help keep mitochondria functioning normally.  The CISD2 gene mutation that causes Wolfram syndrome type 2 results in an abnormally small, nonfunctional CISD2 protein. As a result, mitochondria are not properly maintained, and they eventually break down. Since the mitochondria provide energy to cells, the loss of mitochondria results in decreased energy for cells. Cells that do not have enough energy to function will eventually die. Cells with high energy demands such as nerve cells in the brain, eye, or gastrointestinal tract are most susceptible to cell death due to reduced energy. It is unknown why people with CISD2 gene mutations have ulcers and bleeding problems in addition to the usual Wolfram syndrome features.  Some people with Wolfram syndrome do not have an identified mutation in either the WFS1 or CISD2 gene. The cause of the condition in these individuals is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: A Brain Disorder Parkinson's disease is a brain disorder that leads to shaking, stiffness, and difficulty with walking, balance, and coordination. It affects about half a million people in the United States although the numbers may be much higher. The average age of onset is 60 years, and the risk of developing Parkinson's goes up with age. Parkinson's disease was first described in 1817 by James Parkinson, a British doctor who published a paper on what he called "the shaking palsy." In this paper, he described the major symptoms of the disease that would later bear his name. Four Main Symptoms Parkinson's disease belongs to a group of neurological conditions called movement disorders. The four main symptoms of Parkinson's are: - tremor, or trembling in hands, arms, legs, jaw, or head  - rigidity, or stiffness of the limbs and trunk  - bradykinesia, or slowness of movement  - postural instability, or impaired balance. tremor, or trembling in hands, arms, legs, jaw, or head rigidity, or stiffness of the limbs and trunk bradykinesia, or slowness of movement postural instability, or impaired balance. Parkinson's symptoms usually begin gradually and get worse over time. As the symptoms become more severe, people with the disorder may have difficulty walking, talking, or completing other simple tasks. They also experience non-motor, or movement, symptoms including mental and behavioral changes, sleep problems, depression, memory difficulties, and fatigue. Parkinson's disease not only affects the brain, but the entire body. While the brain involvement is responsible for the core features, other affected locations contribute to the complicated picture of Parkinson's. Parkinson's disease is both chronic, meaning it lasts for a long time, and progressive, meaning its symptoms grow worse over time. It is not contagious. Diagnosis Can Be Difficult About 60,000 Americans are diagnosed with Parkinson's disease each year. However, it's difficult to know exactly how many have it because many people in the early stages of the disease think their symptoms are due to normal aging and do not seek help from a doctor. Also, diagnosis is sometimes difficult because there are no medical tests that can diagnose the disease with certainty and because other conditions may produce symptoms of Parkinson's. For example, people with Parkinson's may sometimes be told by their doctors that they have other disorders, and people with diseases similar to Parkinson's may be incorrectly diagnosed as having Parkinson's. A persons good response to the drug levodopa may support the diagnosis. Levodopa is the main therapy for Parkinsons disease. Who Is at Risk? Both men and women can have Parkinsons disease. However, the disease affects about 50 percent more men than women. While the disease is more common in developed countries, studies also have found an increased risk of Parkinson's disease in people who live in rural areas and in those who work in certain professions, suggesting that environmental factors may play a role in the disorder. Researchers are focusing on additional risk factors for Parkinsons disease. One clear risk factor for Parkinson's is age. The average age of onset is 60 years and the risk rises significantly with advancing age. However, about 5 to 10 percent of people with Parkinson's have "early-onset" disease which begins before the age of 50. Early-onset forms of Parkinson's are often inherited, though not always, and some have been linked to specific gene mutations. Juvenile Parkinsonism In very rare cases, parkinsonian symptoms may appear in people before the age of 20. This condition is called juvenile parkinsonism. It is most commonly seen in Japan but has been found in other countries as well. It usually begins with dystonia (sustained muscle contractions causing twisting movements) and bradykinesia (slowness of movement), and the symptoms often improve with levodopa medication. Juvenile parkinsonism often runs in families and is sometimes linked to a mutated gene. Some Cases Are Inherited Evidence suggests that, in some cases, Parkinsons disease may be inherited. An estimated 15 to 25 percent of people with Parkinson's have a known relative with the disease. People with one or more close relatives who have Parkinson's have an increased risk of developing the disease themselves, but the total risk is still just 2 to 5 percent unless the family has a known gene mutation for the disease. A gene mutation is a change or alteration in the DNA or genetic material that makes up a gene. Researchers have discovered several genes that are linked to Parkinson's disease. The first to be identified was alpha-synuclein or SNCA. Inherited cases of Parkinsons disease are caused by mutations in the LRRK2, PARK2 or parkin, PARK7 or DJ-1, PINK1, or SNCA genes, or by mutations in genes that have not yet been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for Periventricular Leukomalacia ?
Answer: There is no specific treatment for PVL. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Children with PVL should receive regular medical screenings to determine appropriate interventions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Mucopolysaccharidoses ?
Answer: Currently there is no cure for these disease syndromes.Medical care is directed at treating systemic conditions and improving the person's quality of life. Physical therapy and daily exercise may delay joint problems and improve the ability to move.Surgery to remove tonsils and adenoids may improve breathing among affected individuals with obstructive airway disorders and sleep apnea. Surgery can also correct hernias, help drain excessive cerebrospinal fluid from the brain, and free nerves and nerve roots compressed by skeletal and other abnormalities. Corneal transplants may improve vision among individuals with significant corneal clouding.Enzyme replacement therapies are currently in use for several MPS disorders and are beig tested in the other MPS disorders. Enzyme replacement therapy has proven useful in reducing non-neurological symptoms and pain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Chromosome 17p13.1 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Chromosome 17p13.1 deletion syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Chromosome 17p13.1 deletion syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Webbed neck 5% Ankle clonus - Anteverted nares - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Broad hallux - Contiguous gene syndrome - Elbow flexion contracture - Epicanthus - Feeding difficulties - High forehead - High palate - Highly arched eyebrow - Hydrocephalus - Hyperactive deep tendon reflexes - Inverted nipples - Knee flexion contracture - Ligamentous laxity - Long hallux - Muscular hypotonia - Prominent nasal bridge - Proximal placement of thumb - Short chin - Short foot - Short neck - Short palm - Sleep disturbance - Strabismus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is the outlook for Herpes Zoster Oticus ?
Answer: Generally, the prognosis of herpes zoster oticus is good. However, in some cases, hearing loss may be permanent. Vertigo may last for days or weeks. Facial paralysis may be temporary or permanent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Peyronie disease ?
Answer: Peyronie disease is a connective tissue disorder characterized by a plaque, or hard lump, that forms within the penis. Affected individuals may experience painful, curved erections which can make make normal sexual intercourse impossible. Symptoms may appear suddenly or develop gradually. While the painful erections for most men resolve over time, the scar tissue and curvature may remain. Some cases appear to resolve spontaneously. The exact cause of Peyronie's disease is not known.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism-17 ?
Answer: Frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism-17 (FTDP-17) is a progressive brain disorder that affects behavior, language, and movement. The symptoms of this disorder usually become noticeable in a person's forties or fifties. Most affected people survive 5 to 10 years after the appearance of symptoms, although a few have survived for two decades or more.  Changes in personality and behavior are often early signs of FTDP-17. These changes include a loss of inhibition, inappropriate emotional responses, restlessness, neglect of personal hygiene, and a general loss of interest in activities and events. The disease also leads to deterioration of cognitive functions (dementia), including problems with judgment, planning, and concentration. Some people with FTDP-17 develop psychiatric symptoms, including obsessive-compulsive behaviors, delusions, and hallucinations. It may become difficult for affected individuals to interact with others in a socially appropriate manner. They increasingly require help with personal care and other activities of daily living.  Many people with FTDP-17 develop problems with speech and language. They may have trouble finding words, confuse one word with another (semantic paraphasias), and repeat words spoken by others (echolalia). Difficulties with speech and language worsen over time, and most affected individuals eventually lose the ability to communicate.  FTDP-17 is also characterized by progressive problems with movement. Many affected individuals develop features of parkinsonism, including tremors, rigidity, and unusually slow movement (bradykinesia). As the disease progresses, most affected individuals become unable to walk. Some people with FTDP-17 also have restricted up-and-down eye movement (vertical gaze palsy) and rapid abnormal movements of both eyes (saccades).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) protein S deficiency ?
Answer: Protein S deficiency is a disorder of blood clotting. People with this condition have an increased risk of developing abnormal blood clots.  Individuals with mild protein S deficiency are at risk of a type of clot called a deep vein thrombosis (DVT) that occurs in the deep veins of the arms or legs. If a DVT travels through the bloodstream and lodges in the lungs, it can cause a life-threatening clot known as a pulmonary embolism (PE). Other factors can raise the risk of abnormal blood clots in people with mild protein S deficiency. These factors include increasing age, surgery, immobility, or pregnancy. The combination of protein S deficiency and other inherited disorders of blood clotting can also influence risk. Many people with mild protein S deficiency never develop an abnormal blood clot, however.  In severe cases of protein S deficiency, infants develop a life-threatening blood clotting disorder called purpura fulminans soon after birth. Purpura fulminans is characterized by the formation of blood clots within small blood vessels throughout the body. These blood clots disrupt normal blood flow and can lead to death of body tissue (necrosis). Widespread blood clotting uses up all available blood clotting proteins. As a result, abnormal bleeding occurs in various parts of the body and is often noticeable as large, purple skin lesions. Individuals who survive the newborn period may experience recurrent episodes of purpura fulminans.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Leukemia ?
Answer: Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells. White blood cells help your body fight infection. Your blood cells form in your bone marrow. In leukemia, the bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells. These cells crowd out the healthy blood cells, making it hard for blood to do its work.    There are different types of leukemia, including       - Acute lymphocytic leukemia    - Acute myeloid leukemia    - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia    - Chronic myeloid leukemia       Leukemia can develop quickly or slowly. Chronic leukemia grows slowly. In acute leukemia, the cells are very abnormal and their number increases rapidly. Adults can get either type; children with leukemia most often have an acute type. Some leukemias can often be cured. Other types are hard to cure, but you can often control them. Treatments may include chemotherapy, radiation and stem cell transplantation. Even if symptoms disappear, you might need therapy to prevent a relapse.    NIH: National Cancer Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the genetic changes related to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ?
Answer: The hereditary form of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus can be caused by mutations in at least two genes. About 90 percent of all cases of hereditary nephrogenic diabetes insipidus result from mutations in the AVPR2 gene. Most of the remaining 10 percent of cases are caused by mutations in the AQP2 gene. Both of these genes provide instructions for making proteins that help determine how much water is excreted in urine.  The acquired form of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus can result from chronic kidney disease, certain medications (such as lithium), low levels of potassium in the blood (hypokalemia), high levels of calcium in the blood (hypercalcemia), or an obstruction of the urinary tract.  The kidneys filter the blood to remove waste and excess fluid, which are stored in the bladder as urine. The balance between fluid intake and urine excretion is controlled by a hormone called vasopressin or antidiuretic hormone (ADH). ADH directs the kidneys to concentrate urine by reabsorbing some of the water into the bloodstream. Normally, when a person's fluid intake is low or when a lot of fluid is lost (for example, through sweating), increased levels of ADH in the blood tell the kidneys to make less urine. When fluid intake is adequate, lower levels of ADH tell the kidneys to make more urine.  Mutations in the AVPR2 or AQP2 genes prevent the kidneys from responding to signals from ADH. Chronic kidney disease, certain drugs, and other factors can also impair the kidneys' ability to respond to this hormone. As a result, the kidneys do not reabsorb water as they should, and the body makes excessive amounts of urine. These problems with water balance are characteristic of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Anal Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiosensitizers     Radiosensitizers are drugs that make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Combining radiation therapy with radiosensitizers may kill more tumor cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for Citrullinemia type I ?
Answer: What happens when citrullinemia type I is not treated?  Untreated individuals with the severe form of citrullinemia type I have hyperammonemia (plasma ammonia concentration 1000-3000 mol/L). Without prompt intervention, hyperammonemia and the accumulation of other toxic metabolites result in swelling of the brain, breathing problems, increased or decreased muscle tone, muscle weakness, problems staying warm, seizures, loss of consciousness, and sometimes death. Without treatment, most babies die within the first few weeks of life.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to atelosteogenesis type 1 ?
Answer: Mutations in the FLNB gene cause atelosteogenesis type 1. The FLNB gene provides instructions for making a protein called filamin B. This protein helps build the network of protein filaments (cytoskeleton) that gives structure to cells and allows them to change shape and move. Filamin B attaches (binds) to another protein called actin and helps the actin to form the branching network of filaments that makes up the cytoskeleton. Filamin B also links actin to many other proteins to perform various functions within the cell, including the cell signaling that helps determine how the cytoskeleton will change as tissues grow and take shape during development.  Filamin B is especially important in the development of the skeleton before birth. It is active (expressed) in the cell membranes of cartilage-forming cells (chondrocytes). Cartilage is a tough, flexible tissue that makes up much of the skeleton during early development. Most cartilage is later converted to bone, a process called ossification, except for the cartilage that continues to cover and protect the ends of bones and is present in the nose, airways (trachea and bronchi), and external ears. Filamin B appears to be important for normal cell growth and division (proliferation) and maturation (differentiation) of chondrocytes and for the ossification of cartilage.  FLNB gene mutations that cause atelosteogenesis type 1 change single protein building blocks (amino acids) in the filamin B protein or delete a small section of the protein sequence, resulting in an abnormal protein. This abnormal protein appears to have a new, atypical function that interferes with the proliferation or differentiation of chondrocytes, impairing ossification and leading to the signs and symptoms of atelosteogenesis type 1.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome ?
Answer: Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) is a severe, respiratory disease caused by infection with a hantavirus. People can become infected with a hantavirus through contact with hantavirus-infected rodents or their saliva, urine and/or droppings. Early symptoms universally include fatigue, fever and muscle aches (especially in the thighs, hips, and/or back), and sometimes include headaches, dizziness, chills, and abdominal problems such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and pain. Later symptoms of the syndrome occur 4 to 10 days after initial onset and include coughing and shortness of breath. HPS can be fatal; approximately 38% of individuals with HPS do not survive. There is no cure or specific treatment for HPS, but early diagnosis and treatment in intensive care may increase the chance of recovery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Hallermann-Streiff syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hallermann-Streiff syndrome? The signs and symptoms of Hallermann-Streiff syndrome vary in range and severity among affected individuals. The main features of the condition include abnormalities of the skull and facial bones with distinctive facial characteristics (craniofacial abnormalities); ocular (eye) abnormalities; dental abnormalities; and/or short stature. Craniofacial features may include a short, broad head (brachycephaly) with an unusually prominent forehead and/or sides of the skull (frontal bossing); a small, underdeveloped lower jaw (micrognathia); a narrow, highly arched roof of the mouth (palate); and a thin, pinched, tapering nose (beaked nose). Ocular abnormalities may include clouding of the lenses of the eyes at birth (congenital cataracts); unusually small eyes (microphthalmia); and/or other abnormalities. Dental defects may include the presence of teeth at birth (natal teeth) and/or absence, malformation, or improper alignment of teeth. Hypotrichosis (sparse hair) is present in about 80 percent of affected individuals. Other features may include skin atrophy of the face, and/or hypoplasia (underdevelopment) of the clavicles and ribs. Intellectual disability is present in some cases (approximately 15 percent). In many cases, additional abnormalities are present. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hallermann-Streiff syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the clavicle 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Alopecia 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 90% Cataract 90% Convex nasal ridge 90% Frontal bossing 90% Reduced bone mineral density 90% Short stature 90% Abnormality of hair texture 50% Abnormality of the fontanelles or cranial sutures 50% Abnormality of the nares 50% Abnormality of the palate 50% Advanced eruption of teeth 50% Glossoptosis 50% Hypoplasia of the zygomatic bone 50% Increased number of teeth 50% Narrow mouth 50% Recurrent fractures 50% Telecanthus 50% Visual impairment 50% Intellectual disability 15% Abdominal situs inversus 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 7.5% Choanal atresia 7.5% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Glaucoma 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Inflammatory abnormality of the eye 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Myopia 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Short foot 7.5% Short palm 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Tracheomalacia 7.5% Abnormality of the hand - Abnormality of the nasopharynx - Blue sclerae - Brachycephaly - Choreoathetosis - Chorioretinal coloboma - Decreased number of sternal ossification centers - Dental malocclusion - Dermal atrophy - Dolichocephaly - Dry skin - Fine hair - Generalized tonic-clonic seizures - High palate - Hyperactivity - Hyperlordosis - Hypotrichosis of the scalp - Iris coloboma - Joint hypermobility - Low-set ears - Malar flattening - Metaphyseal widening - Microphthalmia - Narrow nose - Narrow palate - Natal tooth - Obstructive sleep apnea - Optic nerve coloboma - Parietal bossing - Pectus excavatum - Platybasia - Proportionate short stature - Pulmonary hypertension - Recurrent pneumonia - Recurrent respiratory infections - Scoliosis - Selective tooth agenesis - Slender long bone - Small for gestational age - Sparse eyebrow - Sparse eyelashes - Sparse hair - Spina bifida - Sporadic - Telangiectasia - Thin calvarium - Thin ribs - Thin vermilion border - Underdeveloped nasal alae - Wormian bones - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Dementia ?
Answer: Dementia is not a specific disease. It is a descriptive term for a collection of symptoms that can be caused by a number of disorders that affect the brain. People with dementia have significantly impaired intellectual functioning that interferes with normal activities and relationships. They also lose their ability to solve problems and maintain emotional control, and they may experience personality changes and behavioral problems, such as agitation, delusions, and hallucinations. While memory loss is a common symptom of dementia, memory loss by itself does not mean that a person has dementia. Doctors diagnose dementia only if two or more brain functions - such as memory and language skills -- are significantly impaired without loss of consciousness. Some of the diseases that can cause symptoms of dementia are Alzheimers disease, vascular dementia, Lewy body dementia, frontotemporal dementia, Huntingtons disease, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Doctors have identified other conditions that can cause dementia or dementia-like symptoms including reactions to medications, metabolic problems and endocrine abnormalities, nutritional deficiencies, infections, poisoning, brain tumors, anoxia or hypoxia (conditions in which the brains oxygen supply is either reduced or cut off entirely), and heart and lung problems. Although it is common in very elderly individuals, dementia is not a normal part of the aging process.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is Jones syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Jones syndrome inherited? Jones syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene from the affected parent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Relapsing polychondritis ?
Answer: What causes relapsing polychondritis? The exact underlying cause of relapsing polychondritis (RP) is unknown. However, scientists suspect that it is an autoimmune condition. It it thought that RP occurs when the body's immune system mistakenly attacks its own cartilage and other tissues. In general, autoimmune conditions are complex traits that are associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. There is also evidence to suggest that some people may be born with a genetic susceptibility to RP. Studies have found that people with RP are roughly twice as likely as those without this condition to carry a certain genetic allele called HLA-DR4. "HLA" stands for human leukocyte antigen, which is an important part of our immune system and plays a role in resistance and predisposition (risk) to disease. However, HLA genes are not solely responsible for specific diseases but instead may simply contribute along with other genetic or environmental factors to disease risk. Thus, many people with HLA-DR4 will never develop RP.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ?
Answer: Considered together, the incidence of all types of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa is estimated to be 6.5 per million newborns in the United States. The severe autosomal recessive forms of this disorder affect fewer than 1 per million newborns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your nervous system healthy ?
Answer: You can keep your nervous system healthy by taking these steps:
                
- Eat healthy meals and follow the meal plan that you and your doctor or dietitian have worked out.  - If you drink alcoholic beverages, limit your intake to no more than one drink per day for women and two drinks per day for men. Drinking too many alcoholic beverages can make nerve damage worse.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Between 85 and 90 percent of all cases of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random (de novo) event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. More complex chromosomal rearrangements can also occur as de novo events, which may help explain the variability in the condition's signs and symptoms. De novo chromosomal changes occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  A small percentage of all people with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome have the disorder as a result of an unusual chromosomal abnormality such as a ring chromosome 4. Ring chromosomes occur when a chromosome breaks in two places and the ends of the chromosome arms fuse together to form a circular structure. In the process, genes near the ends of the chromosome are lost.  In the remaining cases of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, an affected individual inherits a copy of chromosome 4 with a deleted segment. In these cases, one of the individual's parents carries a chromosomal rearrangement between chromosome 4 and another chromosome. This rearrangement is called a balanced translocation. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, translocations can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Some people with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome inherit an unbalanced translocation that deletes genes near the end of the short arm of chromosome 4. A loss of these genes results in the intellectual disability, slow growth, and other health problems characteristic of this disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) ocular albinism ?
Answer: Ocular albinism is a genetic condition that primarily affects the eyes. This condition reduces the coloring (pigmentation) of the iris, which is the colored part of the eye, and the retina, which is the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye. Pigmentation in the eye is essential for normal vision.  Ocular albinism is characterized by severely impaired sharpness of vision (visual acuity) and problems with combining vision from both eyes to perceive depth (stereoscopic vision). Although the vision loss is permanent, it does not worsen over time. Other eye abnormalities associated with this condition include rapid, involuntary eye movements (nystagmus); eyes that do not look in the same direction (strabismus); and increased sensitivity to light (photophobia). Many affected individuals also have abnormalities involving the optic nerves, which carry visual information from the eye to the brain.  Unlike some other forms of albinism, ocular albinism does not significantly affect the color of the skin and hair. People with this condition may have a somewhat lighter complexion than other members of their family, but these differences are usually minor.  The most common form of ocular albinism is known as the Nettleship-Falls type or type 1. Other forms of ocular albinism are much rarer and may be associated with additional signs and symptoms, such as hearing loss.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal dominant type 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal dominant type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteopetrosis autosomal dominant type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Aseptic necrosis 90% Bone pain 90% Facial palsy 90% Frontal bossing 90% Joint dislocation 90% Macrocephaly 90% Osteoarthritis 90% Osteomyelitis 90% Recurrent fractures 90% Short distal phalanx of finger 90% Anemia 50% Genu valgum 50% Optic atrophy 50% Short stature 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of leukocytes 7.5% Carious teeth 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Hypocalcemia 7.5% Bone marrow hypocellularity 5% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology - Abnormality of the vertebral endplates - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Elevated serum acid phosphatase - Facial paralysis - Fractures of the long bones - Generalized osteosclerosis - Hip osteoarthritis - Juvenile onset - Mandibular osteomyelitis - Osteopetrosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Patent Ductus Arteriosus? ?
Answer: Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a relatively common congenital heart defect in the United States.
                
The condition occurs more often in premature infants (on average, occurring in about 8 of every 1,000 births). However, PDA also occurs in full-term infants (on average, occurring in about 2 of every 1,000 births).
                
PDA also is more common in:
                
Infants who have genetic conditions such as Down syndrome
                
Infants whose mothers had German measles (rubella) during pregnancy
                
PDA is twice as common in girls as it is in boys.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ?
Answer: HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) is a chronic, progressive disease of the nervous system that affects less than 2 percent of people with HTLV-1 infection. Signs and symptoms vary but may include progressive weakness, stiff muscles, muscle spasms, backache, a 'weak' bladder, and constipation. The HTLV-1 virus can be transmitted from mother to child via breastfeeding or childbirth, from person to person through sexual contact and through blood contact, either by transfusion or by reuse of injection equipment. HTLV infection is not passed from person to person by coughing, sneezing, kissing, cuddling or daily social contact. Screening of donated blood for HTLV-1 has been done in the United States since 1988.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Heart Failure ?
Answer: More detailed information on heart failure is available at http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/dci
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Primary Biliary Cirrhosis ?
Answer: Primary biliary cirrhosis is a chronic, or long lasting, disease that causes the small bile ducts in the liver to become inflamed and damaged and ultimately disappear.
                
The bile ducts carry a fluid called bile from the liver to the gallbladder, where it is stored. When food enters the stomach after a meal, the gallbladder contracts, and the bile ducts carry bile to the duodenum, the first part of the small intestine, for use in digestion. The liver makes bile, which is made up of bile acids, cholesterol, fats, and fluids. Bile helps the body absorb fats, cholesterol, and fat-soluble vitamins. Bile also carries cholesterol, toxins, and waste products to the intestines, where the body removes them. When chronic inflammation, or swelling, damages the bile ducts, bile and toxic wastes build up in the liver, damaging liver tissue.
                
This damage to the liver tissue can lead to cirrhosis, a condition in which the liver slowly deteriorates and is unable to function normally. In cirrhosis, scar tissue replaces healthy liver tissue, partially blocking the flow of blood through the liver.
                
The liver is the bodys largest internal organ. The liver is called the bodys metabolic factory because of the important role it plays in metabolismthe way cells change food into energy after food is digested and absorbed into the blood. The liver has many functions, including
                
- taking up, storing, and processing nutrients from foodincluding fat, sugar, and proteinand delivering them to the rest of the body when needed  - making new proteins, such as clotting factors and immune factors  - producing bile  - removing waste products the kidneys cannot remove, such as fats, cholesterol, toxins, and medications
                
A healthy liver is necessary for survival. The liver can regenerate most of its own cells when they become damaged. However, if injury to the liver is too severe or long lasting, regeneration is incomplete, and the liver creates scar tissue. Scarring of the liver may lead to cirrhosis.
                
The buildup of scar tissue that causes cirrhosis is usually a slow and gradual process. In the early stages of cirrhosis, the liver continues to function. However, as cirrhosis gets worse and scar tissue replaces more healthy tissue, the liver will begin to fail. Chronic liver failure, which is also called end-stage liver disease, progresses over months, years, or even decades. With end-stage liver disease, the liver can no longer perform important functions or effectively replace damaged cells.
                
Primary biliary cirrhosis usually occurs between the ages of 30 and 65 and affects women more often than men.1
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is hereditary myopathy with early respiratory failure inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis ?
Answer: NASH is usually a silent disease with few or no symptoms. Patients generally feel well in the early stages and only begin to have symptomssuch as fatigue, weight loss, and weaknessonce the disease is more advanced or cirrhosis develops. The progression of NASH can take years, even decades. The process can stop and, in some cases, reverse on its own without specific therapy. Or NASH can slowly worsen, causing scarring or fibrosis to appear and accumulate in the liver. As fibrosis worsens, cirrhosis develops; the liver becomes seriously scarred, hardened, and unable to function normally. Not every person with NASH develops cirrhosis, but once serious scarring or cirrhosis is present, few treatments can halt the progression. A person with cirrhosis experiences fluid retention, muscle wasting, bleeding from the intestines, and liver failure. Liver transplantation is the only treatment for advanced cirrhosis with liver failure, and transplantation is increasingly performed in people with NASH. NASH ranks as one of the major causes of cirrhosis in America, behind hepatitis C and alcoholic liver disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What causes Acute intermittent porphyria ?
Answer: What causes acute intermittent porphyria (AIP)? AIP is caused by the deficiency of an enzyme called porphobilinogen deaminase (PBGD), also known as hydroxymethylbilane synthase (HMBS) and formerly known as uroporphyrinogen I-synthase. The deficiency of PBGD is caused by a mutation in the HMBS gene. The HMBS gene is the only gene known to be associated with AIP. However, the deficiency of PBGD alone is not enough to cause AIP. Other activating factors (e.g., hormones, drugs, dietary changes) must also be present.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF) ?
Answer: Laboratory tests that are used to diagnose CCHF include antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), virus isolation attempts, and detection of antibody by ELISA (IgG and IgM). Laboratory diagnosis of a patient with a clinical history compatible with CCHF can be made during the acute phase of the disease by using the combination of detection of the viral antigen (ELISA antigen capture), viral RNA sequence (RT-PCR) in the blood or in tissues collected from a fatal case and virus isolation. Immunohistochemical staining can also show evidence of viral antigen in formalin-fixed tissues. Later in the course of the disease, in people surviving, antibodies can be found in the blood. But antigen, viral RNA and virus are no more present and detectable
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the treatments for Renal Artery Stenosis ?
Answer: Treatment for RAS includes lifestyle changes, medications, and surgery and aims to
                
- prevent RAS from getting worse  - treat RVH  - relieve the blockage of the renal arteries
                
RAS that has not led to RVH or caused a significant blockage of the artery may not need treatment. RAS that needs to be treated, also called critical RAS, is defined by the American Heart Association as a reduction by more than 60 percent in the diameter of the renal artery.1 However, health care providers are not exactly sure what degree of blockage will cause significant problems.
                
Lifestyle Changes
                
The first step in treating RAS is making lifestyle changes that promote healthy blood vessels throughout the body, including the renal arteries. The best ways to keep plaque from building up in the arteries are to exercise, maintain a healthy body weight, and choose healthy foods. People who smoke should quit to help protect their kidneys and other internal organs.
                
Medications
                
People with RVH may need to take medications thatwhen taken as prescribed by their health care providerlower blood pressure and can also significantly slow the progression of kidney disease. Two types of blood pressure-lowering medications, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), have proven effective in slowing the progression of kidney disease. Many people require two or more medications to control their blood pressure. In addition to an ACE inhibitor or an ARB, a diuretica medication that helps the kidneys remove fluid from the bloodmay be prescribed. Beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, and other blood pressure medications may also be needed. Some people with RAS cannot take an ACE inhibitor or ARB due to the effects on the kidneys. People with RAS who are prescribed an ACE inhibitor or ARB should have their kidney function checked within a few weeks of starting the medication.
                
A cholesterol-lowering medication to prevent plaque from building up in the arteries and a blood-thinner, such as aspirin, to help the blood flow more easily through the arteries may also be prescribed.
                
Surgery
                
Although surgery has been used in the past for treatment of RAS due to atherosclerosis, recent studies have not shown improved outcomes with surgery compared with medication. However, surgery may be recommended for people with RAS caused by FMD or RAS that does not improve with medication. Different types of surgery for RAS include the following. The procedures are performed in a hospital by a vascular surgeona doctor who specializes in repairing blood vessels. Anesthesia is needed.
                
- Angioplasty and stenting. Angioplasty is a procedure in which a catheter is put into the renal artery, usually through the groin, just as in a catheter angiogram. In addition, for angioplasty, a tiny balloon at the end of the catheter can be inflated to flatten the plaque against the artery wall. A small mesh tube, called a stent, may then be positioned inside the artery to keep plaque flattened and the artery open. People with RAS caused by FMD may be successfully treated with angioplasty alone, while angioplasty with stenting has a better outcome for people with RAS caused by atherosclerosis.  - Endarterectomy or bypass surgery. In an endarterectomy, the plaque is cleaned out of the artery, leaving the inside lining smooth and clear. To create a bypass, a vein or synthetic tube is used to connect the kidney to the aorta. This new path serves as an alternate route for blood to flow around the blocked artery into the kidney. These procedures are not performed as often as in the past due to a high risk of complications during and after the procedure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Heart Failure ?
Answer: Early diagnosis and treatment can help people who have heart failure live longer, more active lives. Treatment for heart failure depends on the type and severity of the heart failure.
                
The goals of treatment for all stages of heart failure include:
                
Treating the conditions underlying cause, such ascoronary heart disease,high blood pressure, ordiabetes
                
Reducing symptoms
                
Stopping the heart failure from getting worse
                
Increasing your lifespan and improving your quality of life
                
Treatments usually include lifestyle changes, medicines, and ongoing care. If you have severe heart failure, you also may need medical procedures or surgery.
                
Heart-Healthy Lifestyle Changes
                
Your doctor may recommend heart-healthy lifestyle changes if you have heart failure. Heart-healthy lifestyle changes include:
                
Heart-healthy eating
                
Maintaining a healthy weight
                
Physical activity
                
Quitting smoking
                
Heart-Healthy Eating
                
Your doctor may recommend a heart-healthy eating plan, which should include:
                
Fat-free or low-fat dairy products, such as skim milk
                
Fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, tuna, and trout, about twice a week
                
Fruits, such as apples, bananas, oranges, pears, and prunes
                
Legumes, such as kidney beans, lentils, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, and lima beans
                
Vegetables, such as broccoli, cabbage, and carrots
                
Whole grains, such as oatmeal, brown rice, and corn tortillas
                
When following a heart-healthy diet, you should avoid eating:
                
A lot of red meat
                
Palm and coconut oils
                
Sugary foods and beverages
                
Two nutrients in your diet make blood cholesterol levels rise:
                
Saturated fatfound mostly in foods that come from animals
                
Trans fat (trans fatty acids)found in foods made with hydrogenated oils and fats, such as stick margarine; baked goods, such as cookies, cakes, and pies; crackers; frostings; and coffee creamers. Some trans fats also occur naturally in animal fats andmeats.
                
Saturated fat raises your blood cholesterol more than anything else in your diet. When you follow a heart-healthy eating plan, only 5 percent to 6 percent of your daily calories should come from saturated fat. Food labels list the amounts of saturated fat. To help you stay on track, here are some examples:
                
If you eat:
                
Try to eat no more than:
                
1,200 calories a day                
                
8 grams of saturated fat a day      
                
1,500 calories a day
                
10 grams of saturated fat a day
                
1,800 calories a day
                
12 grams of saturated fat a day
                
2,000 calories a day
                
13 grams of saturated fat a day
                
2,500 calories a day
                
17 grams of saturated fat a day
                
Not all fats are bad. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats actually help lower blood cholesterollevels.
                
Some sources of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats are:
                
Avocados
                
Corn, sunflower, and soybean oils
                
Nuts and seeds, such as walnuts
                
Olive, canola, peanut, safflower, and sesame oils
                
Peanut butter
                
Salmon and trout
                
Tofu
                
Sodium
                
You should try to limit the amount of sodium that you eat. This means choosing and preparing foods that are lower in salt and sodium. Try to use low-sodium and no added salt foods and seasonings at the table or while cooking. Food labels tell you what you need to know about choosing foods that are lower in sodium. Try to eat no more than 2,300 milligrams of sodium a day. If you have high blood pressure, you may need to restrict your sodium intake even more.
                
Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension
                
Your doctor may recommend the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) eating plan if you have high blood pressure. The DASH eating plan focuses on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and other foods that are heart healthy and low in fat, cholesterol, and sodium and salt.
                
The DASH eating plan is a good heart-healthy eating plan, even for those who dont have high blood pressure. Read more about DASH.
                
Liquid Intake
                
Its important for people who have heart failure to take in the correct amounts and types of liquids. Consuming too much liquid can worsen heart failure. Also, if you have heart failure, you shouldnt drink alcohol. Talk with your doctor about what amounts and types of liquids you should have each day.
                
Maintaining a Healthy Weight
                
Maintaining a healthy weight is important for overall health and can lower your risk for heart failure and coronary heart disease. Aim for a Healthy Weight by following a heart-healthy eating plan and keeping physically active.
                
Knowing your body mass index (BMI) helps you find out if youre a healthy weight in relation to your height and gives an estimate of your total body fat. To figure out your BMI, check out the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institutes (NHLBI) online BMI calculator or talk to your doctor. A BMI:
                
Below 18.5 is a sign that you are underweight.
                
Between 18.5 and 24.9 is in the normal range.
                
Between 25 and 29.9 is considered overweight.
                
Of 30 or more is considered obese.
                
A general goal to aim for is a BMI below 25. Your doctor or health care provider can help you set an appropriate BMI goal.
                
Measuring waist circumference helps screen for possible health risks. If most of your fat is around your waist rather than at your hips, youre at a higher risk for heart disease and type 2 diabetes. This risk may be higher with a waist size that is greater than 35 inches for women or greater than 40 inches for men. To learn how to measure your waist, visit Assessing Your Weight and Health Risk.
                
If youre overweight or obese, try to lose weight. A loss of just 3 percent to 5 percent of your current weight can lower your triglycerides, blood glucose, and the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Greater amounts of weight loss can improve blood pressure readings, lower LDL cholesterol, and increase HDL cholesterol.
                
Physical Activity
                
Routine physical activity can lower many coronary heart disease risk factors, including LDL (bad) cholesterol, high blood pressure, and excess weight. Physical activity also can lower your risk for diabetes and raise your HDL cholesterol level. HDL is the good cholesterol that helps prevent coronary heart disease.
                
Everyone should try to participate in moderate-intensity aerobic exercise at least 2hours and 30minutes per week, or vigorous aerobic exercise for 1hour and 15minutes per week. Aerobic exercise, such as brisk walking, is any exercise in which your heart beats faster and you use more oxygen than usual. The more active you are, the more you will benefit. Participate in aerobic exercise for at least 10minutes at a time spread throughout the week.
                
Read more about physical activity at:
                
Physical Activity and Your Heart
                
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines forAmericans
                
Talk with your doctor before you start a new exercise plan. Ask your doctor how much and what kinds of physical activity are safe for you.
                
Quitting Smoking
                
If you smoke, quit. Smoking can raise your risk for coronary heart disease and heart attack and worsen heart failure. Talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit smoking. Also, try to avoid secondhand smoke.
                
If you have trouble quitting smoking on your own, consider joining a support group. Many hospitals, workplaces, and community groups offer classes to help people quit smoking.
                
Read more about quitting smoking at Smoking and Your Heart.
                
Medicines
                
Your doctor will prescribe medicines based on the type of heart failure you have, how severe it is, and your response to certain medicines. The following medicines are commonly used to treat heart failure:
                
ACE inhibitors lower blood pressure and reduce strain on your heart. They also may reduce the risk of a futureheart attack.
                
Aldosterone antagonists trigger the body to remove excess sodium through urine. This lowers the volume of blood that the heart must pump.
                
Angiotensin receptor blockers relax your blood vessels and lower blood pressure to decrease your hearts workload.
                
Beta blockers slow your heart rate and lower your blood pressure to decrease your hearts workload.
                
Digoxin makes the heart beat stronger and pump more blood.
                
Diuretics (fluid pills) help reduce fluid buildup in your lungs and swelling in your feet and ankles.
                
Isosorbide dinitrate/hydralazine hydrochloride helps relax your blood vessels so your heart doesnt work as hard to pump blood. Studies have shown that this medicine can reduce the risk of death in blacks. More studies are needed to find out whether this medicine will benefit other racial groups.
                
Take all medicines regularly, as your doctor prescribes. Dont change the amount of your medicine or skip a dose unless your doctor tells you to. You should still follow a heart healthy lifestyle, even if you take medicines to treat your heart failure.
                
Ongoing Care
                
You should watch for signs that heart failure is getting worse. For example, weight gain may mean that fluids are building up in your body. Ask your doctor how often you should check your weight and when to report weight changes.
                
Getting medical care for other related conditions is important. If you have diabetes or high blood pressure, work with your health care team to control these conditions. Have your blood sugar level and blood pressure checked. Talk with your doctor about when you should have tests and how often to take measurements at home.
                
Try to avoid respiratory infections like the flu andpneumonia. Talk with your doctor or nurse about getting flu and pneumonia vaccines.
                
Many people who have severe heart failure may need treatment in a hospital from time to time. Your doctor may recommend oxygen therapy, which can be given in a hospital or at home.
                
Medical Procedures and Surgery
                
As heart failure worsens, lifestyle changes and medicines may no longer control your symptoms. You may need a medical procedure or surgery.
                
In heart failure, the right and left sides of the heart may no longer contract at the same time. This disrupts the hearts pumping. To correct this problem, your doctor might implant a cardiac resynchronization therapy device (a type ofpacemaker) near your heart. This device helps both sides of your heart contract at the same time, which can decrease heart failure symptoms.
                
Some people who have heart failure have very rapid, irregular heartbeats. Without treatment, these heartbeats can causesudden cardiac arrest. Your doctor might implant an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) near your heart to solve this problem. An ICD checks your heart rate and uses electrical pulses to correct irregular heart rhythms.
                
People who have severe heart failure symptoms at rest, despite other treatments, may need:
                
A mechanical heart pump, such as aleft ventricular assist device. This device helps pump blood from the heart to the rest of the body. You may use a heart pump until you have surgery or as a long-term treatment.
                
Heart transplant. A heart transplant is an operation in which a persons diseased heart is replaced with a healthy heart from a deceased donor. Heart transplants are done as a life-saving measure for end-stage heart failure when medical treatment and less drastic surgery have failed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Tay-Sachs disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Tay-Sachs disease? The most common form of Tay-Sachs disease begins in infancy. Infants with this disorder typically appear normal until the age of 3 to 6 months, when development slows and muscles used for movement weaken. Affected infants lose motor skills such as turning over, sitting, and crawling. As the disease progresses, infants develop seizures, vision and hearing loss, mental retardation, and paralysis. An eye abnormality called a cherry-red spot, which can be identified with an eye examination, is characteristic of this disorder. Children with this severe form of Tay-Sachs disease usually live only into early childhood. Other forms of Tay-Sachs disease are much rarer. Signs and symptoms can begin in childhood, adolescence, or adulthood and are usually milder than those seen with the infantile form of Tay-Sachs disease. As in the infantile form, mental abilities and coordination are affected. Characteristic features include muscle weakness, loss of muscle coordination (ataxia) and other problems with movement, speech problems, and mental illness. These signs and symptoms vary widely among people with late-onset forms of Tay-Sachs disease. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tay-Sachs disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of movement 90% Abnormality of the macula 90% Developmental regression 90% EEG abnormality 90% Hearing impairment 90% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 90% Hyperreflexia 90% Incoordination 90% Macrocephaly 90% Seizures 90% Hepatomegaly 50% Hypertonia 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Myotonia 50% Optic atrophy 50% Recurrent respiratory infections 50% Splenomegaly 50% Apathy - Aspiration - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blindness - Cherry red spot of the macula - Dementia - Exaggerated startle response - GM2-ganglioside accumulation - Infantile onset - Poor head control - Psychomotor deterioration - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Pallister-Hall syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the GLI3 gene cause Pallister-Hall syndrome.  The GLI3 gene provides instructions for making a protein that controls gene expression, which is a process that regulates whether genes are turned on or off in particular cells. By interacting with certain genes at specific times during development, the GLI3 protein plays a role in the normal shaping (patterning) of many organs and tissues before birth.  Mutations that cause Pallister-Hall syndrome typically lead to the production of an abnormally short version of the GLI3 protein. Unlike the normal GLI3 protein, which can turn target genes on or off, the short protein can only turn off (repress) target genes. Researchers are working to determine how this change in the protein's function affects early development. It remains uncertain how GLI3 mutations can cause polydactyly, hypothalamic hamartoma, and the other features of Pallister-Hall syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Stroke 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebral aneurysm - Hematuria - Leukoencephalopathy - Muscle cramps - Nephropathy - Renal cyst - Renal insufficiency - Retinal arteriolar tortuosity - Retinal hemorrhage - Supraventricular arrhythmia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by familial paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia ?
Answer: Familial paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia is a very rare disorder. Its prevalence is estimated to be 1 in 5 million people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Ollier disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Ollier disease? Clinical manifestations in Ollier disease often appear in the first decade of life and usually start with the appearance of palpable bony masses on a finger or a toe, an asymetric shortening of an extremity with limping, and skeletal deformities which may be associated with pathologic fractures. Enchondromas frequently affect the long tubular bones, particularly the tibia, the femur, and/or the fibula; flat bones, especially the pelvis, can also be affected. The lesions may affect multiple bones and are usually asymetrically distributed, exclusively or predominantly affecting one side of the body. Affected bones are often shortened and deformed. Indeed, bone shortening may be the only clinical sign of the disease. These bone shortenings are often associated with bone bending and curving, and may lead to limitations in articular movement. Forearm deformities are frequently encountered. In childhood, the lesions are subjected to pathologic fractures. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ollier disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Cavernous hemangioma 90% Micromelia 90% Osteolysis 90% Visceral angiomatosis 90% Bone pain 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Abnormality of coagulation 7.5% Anemia 7.5% Lymphangioma 7.5% Ovarian neoplasm 7.5% Platyspondyly 7.5% Precocious puberty 7.5% Skin ulcer 7.5% Thrombophlebitis 7.5% Chondrosarcoma - Multiple enchondromatosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is protein S deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Protein S deficiency is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one altered copy of the PROS1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause mild protein S deficiency. Individuals who inherit two altered copies of this gene in each cell have severe protein S deficiency.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Hemangioendothelioma ?
Answer: How might hemangioendothelioma be treated? Treatment for hemangioendothelioma may depend on the type of hemangioendothelioma present in the affected individual and the risk of recurrence or metastases. In most reported cases, surgical excision (removal) of the mass has been the only treatment. For spindle cell hemangioma, simple excision is reportedly curative; however, new growths develop in adjacent skin and soft tissues in 60% of affected individuals. For individuals with papillary intralymphatic angioendothelioma (PILA), excision of the involved lymph nodes, as well as the mass, has been recommended. Surgical excision is reportedly also the usual treatment for individuals with retiform hemangioendothelioma (although local recurrence with this type is common), epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, and composite hemangioendothelioma (with the exception of 1 case treated with interferon). Most individuals with pseudomyogenic hemangioendothelioma have been treated with simple excision, but a few individuals have also received post-surgical radiotherapy (RT). With regard to kaposiform hemangioendothelioma, some large lesions cannot be completely removed and may cause fatal complications due to the associated KasabachMerritt syndrome. In these cases, several medical therapies have been used, including systemic corticosteroids; alfa interferon; RT; embolization; and several other therapies, both alone and in various combinations. A study by Scott et al published in 2012 in the American Journal of Clinical Oncology evaluated the effectiveness of RT as either an alternative or adjunct to surgery. The authors stated that the effectiveness of definitive RT in the treatment of hemangioendothelioma in their study implies that radiation may be an acceptable alternative when surgical resection will compromise function or cosmetic result. They concluded that with no local recurrences and minimal risk of toxicity, their long-term data suggest that RT offers a highly effective management option for this disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder ?
Answer: Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder refers to a steady pattern of one- to two-hour delays in sleep onset and wake times in people with normal living conditions. This occurs because the period of the person's sleep-wake cycle is longer than 24 hours. The condition most commonly affects people who are blind, due to an impaired sense of light-dark cycles. Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder can also affect sighted people. The cause of the disorder in these cases is incompletely understood, but studies suggest melatonin levels play a role.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by PMM2-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?
Answer: More than 800 individuals with PMM2-CDG have been identified worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Cavernous Malformation ?
Answer: Rebleeding from a cavernous angioma is common, it is not predictable, and individuals frequently have multiple CCMs found via magnetic resonance imaging. Individuals with CCM are faced with a diagnosis that imparts risk of multiple future hemorrhages that occur seemingly at random and without any preventative therapy except surgical removal.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Anemia ?
Answer: The most common symptom of anemia is fatigue (feeling tired or weak). If you have anemia, you may find it hard to find the energy to do normal activities.
                
Other signs and symptoms of anemia include:
                
Shortness of breath
                
Dizziness
                
Headache
                
Coldness in the hands and feet
                
Pale skin
                
Chest pain
                
These signs and symptoms can occur because your heart has to work harder to pump oxygen-rich blood through your body.
                
Mild to moderate anemia may cause very mild symptoms or none at all.
                
Complications of Anemia
                
Some people who have anemia may have arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs). Arrhythmias are problems with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. Over time, arrhythmias can damage your heart and possibly lead to heart failure.
                
Anemia also can damage other organs in your body because your blood can't get enough oxygen to them.
                
Anemia can weaken people who have cancer or HIV/AIDS. This can make their treatments not work as well.
                
Anemia also can cause many other health problems. People who have kidney disease and anemia are more likely to have heart problems. With some types of anemia, too little fluid intake or too much loss of fluid in the blood and body can occur. Severe loss of fluid can be life threatening.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Trichomegaly with intellectual disability, dwarfism and pigmentary degeneration of retina ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Trichomegaly with intellectual disability, dwarfism and pigmentary degeneration of retina? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Trichomegaly with intellectual disability, dwarfism and pigmentary degeneration of retina. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 90% Abnormality of the eyelashes 90% Abnormality of the genital system 90% Anterior hypopituitarism 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Decreased nerve conduction velocity 90% Delayed eruption of teeth 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Heterochromia iridis 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Nystagmus 90% Thick eyebrow 90% Truncal obesity 90% Visual impairment 90% Fine hair 50% Frontal bossing 50% Prominent occiput 50% Synophrys 50% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Central heterochromia - Cryptorchidism - Delayed puberty - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Growth hormone deficiency - Hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism - Hypoplasia of penis - Intellectual disability - Long eyebrows - Long eyelashes - Peripheral axonal neuropathy - Pigmentary retinal degeneration - Severe short stature - Small for gestational age - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Polycythemia Vera ?
Answer: Polycythemia vera (POL-e-si-THEE-me-ah VAY-rah or VE-rah), or PV, is a rare blood disease in which your body makes too many red blood cells.
                
The extra red blood cells make your blood thicker than normal. As a result, blood clots can form more easily. These clots can block blood flow through your arteries and veins, which can cause a heart attack or stroke.
                
Thicker blood also doesn't flow as quickly to your body as normal blood. Slowed blood flow prevents your organs from getting enough oxygen, which can cause serious problems, such as angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh) and heart failure. (Angina is chest pain or discomfort.)
                
Overview
                
Red blood cells carry oxygen to all parts of your body. They also remove carbon dioxide (a waste product) from your body's cells and carry it to the lungs to be exhaled.
                
Red blood cells are made in your bone marrowa sponge-like tissue inside the bones. White blood cells and platelets (PLATE-lets) also are made in your bone marrow. White blood cells help fight infection. Platelets stick together to seal small cuts or breaks on blood vessel walls and stop bleeding.
                
If you have PV, your bone marrow makes too many red blood cells. It also can make too many white blood cells and platelets.
                
A mutation, or change, in the body's JAK2 gene is the major cause of PV. This gene makes a protein that helps the body produce blood cells. What causes the change in the JAK2 gene isn't known. PV generally isn't inheritedthat is, passed from parents to children through genes.
                
PV develops slowly and may not cause symptoms for years. The disease often is found during routine blood tests done for other reasons.
                
When signs and symptoms are present, they're the result of the thick blood that occurs with PV. This thickness slows the flow of oxygen-rich blood to all parts of your body. Without enough oxygen, many parts of your body won't work normally.
                
For example, slower blood flow deprives your arms, legs, lungs, and eyes of the oxygen they need. This can cause headaches, dizziness, itching, and vision problems, such as blurred or double vision.
                
Outlook
                
PV is a serious, chronic (ongoing) disease that can be fatal if not diagnosed and treated. PV has no cure, but treatments can help control the disease and its complications.
                
PV is treated with procedures, medicines, and other methods. You may need one or more treatments to manage the disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Scientists continue to look at new ways to prevent, treat, and diagnose prostate cancer. Research has already led to a number of advances in these areas. Dietary Research Several studies are under way to explore the causes of prostate cancer. Some researchers think that diet may affect a man's chances of developing prostate cancer. For example, some studies show that prostate cancer is more common in populations that consume a high-fat diet, particularly animal fat, and in populations with diets that lack certain nutrients. Research on Testosterone Some research suggests that high levels of testosterone may increase a man's risk of prostate cancer. The difference in prostate cancer risk among racial groups could be related to high testosterone levels, but it also could result from diet or other lifestyle factors. Genetic Research Researchers are studying changes in genes that may increase the risk for developing prostate cancer. Some studies are looking at the genes of men who were diagnosed with prostate cancer at a relatively young age, such as less than 55 years old, and the genes of families who have several members with the disease. Other studies are trying to identify which genes, or arrangements of genes, are most likely to lead to prostate cancer. Much more work is needed, however, before scientists can say exactly how genetic changes relate to prostate cancer. Prevention Research Several studies have explored ways to prevent prostate cancer. In October 2008, initial results of a study on the use of the dietary supplements vitamin E and selenium found that they did not provide any benefit in reducing the number of new cases of the disease. A few studies suggest that a diet that regularly includes tomato-based foods may help protect men from prostate cancer, but there are no studies that conclusively prove this hypothesis. According to results of a study that was re-analyzed in 2013, men who took finasteride, a drug that affects male hormone levels, reduced their chances of getting prostate cancer by nearly 30 percent compared to men who took a placebo. Unlike earlier findings from this study, this new analysis showed no increased risk of late stage disease due to use of finasteride. Stopping Prostate Cancer from Returning Scientists are also looking at ways to stop prostate cancer from returning in men who have already been treated for the disease. These approaches use drugs such as finasteride, flutamide, nilutamide, and LH-RH agonists that manipulate hormone levels. In 2010, the FDA approved a therapeutic cancer vaccine, Provenge, for use in some men with metastatic prostate cancer. Provenge may provide a 4-month improvement in overall survival compared with a placebo vaccine. Other similar vaccine therapies are in development. Research on New Blood Tests Some researchers are working to develop new blood tests to detect the antibodies that the immune system produces to fight prostate cancer. When used along with PSA testing, the antibody tests may provide more accurate results about whether or not a man has prostate cancer. Researching New Approaches to Treatment Through research, doctors are trying to find new, more effective ways to treat prostate cancer. Cryosurgery -- destroying cancer by freezing it -- is under study as an alternative to surgery and radiation therapy. To avoid damaging healthy tissue, the doctor places an instrument known as a cryoprobe in direct contact with the tumor to freeze it. Doctors are studying new ways of using radiation therapy and hormonal therapy, too. Studies have shown that hormonal therapy given after radiation therapy can help certain men whose cancer has spread to nearby tissues. Scientists are also testing the effectiveness of chemotherapy and biological therapy for men whose cancer does not respond, or stops responding, to hormonal therapy. They are also exploring new ways to schedule and combine various treatments. For example, they are studying hormonal therapy to find out if using it to shrink the tumor before a man has surgery or radiation might be a useful approach. For men with early stage prostate cancer, researchers are also comparing treatment with watchful waiting. The results of this work will help doctors know whether to treat early stage prostate cancer immediately or only later on, if symptoms occur or worsen.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 5 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 5? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 5. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Decreased nerve conduction velocity 90% Hearing impairment 90% Optic atrophy 90% Pes cavus 90% Impaired pain sensation 50% Gait disturbance 7.5% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 7.5% Incoordination 7.5% Kyphosis 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Tremor 7.5% Areflexia of lower limbs - Childhood onset - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - Motor delay - Onion bulb formation - Progressive visual loss - Segmental peripheral demyelination/remyelination - Sensorineural hearing impairment - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Kidney Stones in Adults ?
Answer: Treatment for kidney stones usually depends on their size and what they are made of, as well as whether they are causing pain or obstructing the urinary tract. Kidney stones may be treated by a general practitioner or by a urologista doctor who specializes in the urinary tract. Small stones usually pass through the urinary tract without treatment. Still, the person may need pain medication and should drink lots of fluids to help move the stone along. Pain control may consist of oral or intravenous (IV) medication, depending on the duration and severity of the pain. IV fluids may be needed if the person becomes dehydrated from vomiting or an inability to drink. A person with a larger stone, or one that blocks urine flow and causes great pain, may need more urgent treatment, such as
                
- Shock wave lithotripsy. A machine called a lithotripter is used to crush the kidney stone. The procedure is performed by a urologist on an outpatient basis and anesthesia is used. In shock wave lithotripsy, the person lies on a table or, less commonly, in a tub of water above the lithotripter. The lithotripter generates shock waves that pass through the persons body to break the kidney stone into smaller pieces to pass more readily through the urinary tract.  - Ureteroscopy. A ureteroscopea long, tubelike instrument with an eyepieceis used to find and retrieve the stone with a small basket or to break the stone up with laser energy. The procedure is performed by a urologist in a hospital with anesthesia. The urologist inserts the ureteroscope into the persons urethra and slides the scope through the bladder and into the ureter. The urologist removes the stone or, if the stone is large, uses a flexible fiber attached to a laser generator to break the stone into smaller pieces that can pass out of the body in the urine. The person usually goes home the same day.
                
- Percutaneous nephrolithotomy. In this procedure, a wire-thin viewing instrument called a nephroscope is used to locate and remove the stone. The procedure is performed by a urologist in a hospital with anesthesia. During the procedure, a tube is inserted directly into the kidney through a small incision in the persons back. For large stones, an ultrasonic probe that acts as a lithotripter may be needed to deliver shock waves that break the stone into small pieces that can be removed more easily. The person may have to stay in the hospital for several days after the procedure and may have a small tube called a nephrostomy tube inserted through the skin into the kidney. The nephrostomy tube drains urine and any residual stone fragments from the kidney into a urine collection bag. The tube is usually left in the kidney for 2 or 3 days while the person remains in the hospital.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Juvenile dermatomyositis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Juvenile dermatomyositis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Juvenile dermatomyositis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autoimmunity 90% Chondrocalcinosis 90% Dry skin 90% Mucosal telangiectasiae 90% Muscle weakness 90% Myalgia 90% Periorbital edema 90% Skin rash 90% Telangiectasia of the skin 90% Abnormality of temperature regulation 50% Alopecia 50% Arthralgia 50% Arthritis 50% Constipation 50% Cutaneous photosensitivity 50% Flexion contracture 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Poikiloderma 50% Pruritus 50% Restrictive lung disease 50% Skin ulcer 50% Vasculitis 50% Abdominal pain 7.5% Abnormality of the pericardium 7.5% Abnormality of the voice 7.5% Arrhythmia 7.5% Coronary artery disease 7.5% EMG abnormality 7.5% Feeding difficulties in infancy 7.5% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 7.5% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Pulmonary fibrosis 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Weight loss 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Myositis - Proximal muscle weakness - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Poison Ivy, Oak and Sumac ?
Answer: If you spend time outdoors, chances are you have been bothered by poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac at some point. Most people are sensitive to the plants' oily sap. The sap is in the root, stems, leaves and fruit of these plants. If it gets on your skin, it causes a blistering skin rash. The rash can range from mild to severe, depending on how much sap gets on your skin and how sensitive you are to it. Problems can also happen if the plants are burned. Airborne sap-coated soot can get into the eyes, nose, throat and respiratory system.     The best way to avoid the rash is to learn what the plants look like and stay away from them. If you come into contact with the plants, wash your skin and clothing right away. If you develop a rash, ask your pharmacist about over-the-counter medicines. For severe rashes, see your doctor.     National Park Service
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: BSCL2-Related Neurologic Disorders/Seipinopathy  - Gene Review: Gene Review: GARS-Associated Axonal Neuropathy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Distal hereditary motor neuronopathy type 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Distal hereditary motor neuronopathy type 5B  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: High-Arched Foot   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Pituitary Tumors ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with pituitary tumors.    - Four types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery     - Radiation therapy     - Drug therapy     - Chemotherapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.     - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with pituitary tumors.
                    Different types of treatments are available for patients with pituitary tumors. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Four types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery    Many pituitary tumors can be removed by surgery using one of the following operations:            -  Transsphenoidal surgery: A type of surgery in which the instruments are inserted into part of the brain by going through an incision (cut) made under the upper lip or at the bottom of the nose between the nostrils and then through the sphenoid bone (a butterfly-shaped bone at the base of the skull) to reach the pituitary gland. The pituitary gland lies just above the sphenoid bone.     -  Endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery: A type of surgery in which an endoscope is inserted through an incision (cut) made at the back of the inside of the nose and then through the sphenoid bone to reach the pituitary gland. An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light, a lens for viewing, and a tool for removing tumor tissue.     -  Craniotomy: Surgery to remove the tumor through an opening made in the skull.            Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, some patients may be given chemotherapy or radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.        Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer. Certain ways of giving radiation therapy can help keep radiation from damaging nearby healthy tissue. This type of radiation therapy may include the following:                  -  Stereotactic radiosurgery: A rigid head frame is attached to the skull to keep the head still during the radiation treatment. A machine aims a single large dose of radiation directly at the tumor. This procedure does not involve surgery. It is also called stereotaxic radiosurgery, radiosurgery, and radiation surgery.                -   Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of the cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat pituitary tumors.       Drug therapy     Drugs may be given to stop a functioning pituitary tumor from making too many hormones.       Chemotherapy    Chemotherapy may be used as palliative treatment for pituitary carcinomas, to relieve symptoms and improve the patient's quality of life. Chemotherapy uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type of the cancer being treated.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
 		        
		            Treatment Options for Pituitary Tumors
		            
		                
		                    Non-functioning Pituitary Tumors
		                    Treatment may include the following:          -  Surgery (transsphenoidal surgery, if possible) to remove the tumor, followed by watchful waiting (closely monitoring a patients condition without giving any treatment until signs or symptoms appear or change). Radiation therapy is given if the tumor comes back.     - Radiation therapy alone.         Treatment for luteinizing hormone -producing and follicle-stimulating hormone -producing tumors is usually transsphenoidal surgery to remove the tumor.
		                
		                
		                    Prolactin-Producing Pituitary Tumors
		                    Treatment may include the following:         -  Drug therapy to stop the tumor from making prolactin and to stop the tumor from growing.    -  Surgery to remove the tumor (transsphenoidal surgery or craniotomy) when the tumor does not respond to drug therapy or when the patient cannot take the drug.     -  Radiation therapy.     - Surgery followed by radiation therapy.
		                
		                
		                    ACTH-Producing Pituitary Tumors
		                    Treatment may include the following:         -  Surgery (usually transsphenoidal surgery) to remove the tumor, with or without radiation therapy.     - Radiation therapy alone.     -  Drug therapy to stop the tumor from making ACTH.     - A clinical trial of stereotactic radiation surgery.
		                
		                
		                    Growth HormoneProducing Pituitary Tumors
		                    Treatment may include the following:         -  Surgery (usually transsphenoidal or endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery) to remove the tumor, with or without radiation therapy.     -  Drug therapy to stop the tumor from making growth hormone.
		                
		                
		                    Thyroid-Stimulating HormoneProducing Tumors
		                    Treatment may include the following:         -  Surgery (usually transsphenoidal surgery) to remove the tumor, with or without radiation therapy.     -  Drug therapy to stop the tumor from making hormones.
		                
		                
		                    Pituitary Carcinomas
		                    Treatment of pituitary carcinomas is palliative, to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life. Treatment may include the following:         -  Surgery (transsphenoidal surgery or craniotomy) to remove the cancer, with or without radiation therapy.     -  Drug therapy to stop the tumor from making hormones.     -  Chemotherapy.
		                
		                
		                    Recurrent Pituitary Tumors
		                    Treatment may include the following:         -  Radiation therapy.     - A clinical trial of stereotactic radiation surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) retinitis pigmentosa ?
Answer: Retinitis pigmentosa is a group of related eye disorders that cause progressive vision loss. These disorders affect the retina, which is the layer of light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye. In people with retinitis pigmentosa, vision loss occurs as the light-sensing cells of the retina gradually deteriorate.  The first sign of retinitis pigmentosa is usually a loss of night vision, which becomes apparent in childhood. Problems with night vision can make it difficult to navigate in low light. Later, the disease causes blind spots to develop in the side (peripheral) vision. Over time, these blind spots merge to produce tunnel vision. The disease progresses over years or decades to affect central vision, which is needed for detailed tasks such as reading, driving, and recognizing faces. In adulthood, many people with retinitis pigmentosa become legally blind.  The signs and symptoms of retinitis pigmentosa are most often limited to vision loss. When the disorder occurs by itself, it is described as nonsyndromic. Researchers have identified several major types of nonsyndromic retinitis pigmentosa, which are usually distinguished by their pattern of inheritance: autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked.  Less commonly, retinitis pigmentosa occurs as part of syndromes that affect other organs and tissues in the body. These forms of the disease are described as syndromic. The most common form of syndromic retinitis pigmentosa is Usher syndrome, which is characterized by the combination of vision loss and hearing loss beginning early in life. Retinitis pigmentosa is also a feature of several other genetic syndromes, including Bardet-Biedl syndrome; Refsum disease; and neuropathy, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa (NARP).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to prekallikrein deficiency ?
Answer: Prekallikrein deficiency is caused by mutations in the KLKB1 gene, which provides instructions for making a protein called prekallikrein. This protein, when converted to an active form called plasma kallikrein in the blood, is involved in the early stages of blood clotting. Plasma kallikrein plays a role in a process called the intrinsic coagulation pathway (also called the contact activation pathway). This pathway turns on (activates) proteins that are needed later in the clotting process. Blood clots protect the body after an injury by sealing off damaged blood vessels and preventing further blood loss.  The KLKB1 gene mutations that cause prekallikrein deficiency reduce or eliminate functional plasma kallikrein, which likely impairs the intrinsic coagulation pathway. Researchers suggest that this lack (deficiency) of functional plasma kallikrein protein does not generally cause any symptoms because another process called the extrinsic coagulation pathway (also known as the tissue factor pathway) can compensate for the impaired intrinsic coagulation pathway.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) age-related macular degeneration ?
Answer: Age-related macular degeneration is an eye disease that is a leading cause of vision loss in older people in developed countries. The vision loss usually becomes noticeable in a person's sixties or seventies and tends to worsen over time.  Age-related macular degeneration mainly affects central vision, which is needed for detailed tasks such as reading, driving, and recognizing faces. The vision loss in this condition results from a gradual deterioration of light-sensing cells in the tissue at the back of the eye that detects light and color (the retina). Specifically, age-related macular degeneration affects a small area near the center of the retina, called the macula, which is responsible for central vision. Side (peripheral) vision and night vision are generally not affected.  Researchers have described two major types of age-related macular degeneration, known as the dry form and the wet form. The dry form is much more common, accounting for 85 to 90 percent of all cases of age-related macular degeneration. It is characterized by a buildup of yellowish deposits called drusen beneath the retina and slowly progressive vision loss. The condition typically affects vision in both eyes, although vision loss often occurs in one eye before the other.  The wet form of age-related macular degeneration is associated with severe vision loss that can worsen rapidly. This form of the condition is characterized by the growth of abnormal, fragile blood vessels underneath the macula. These vessels leak blood and fluid, which damages the macula and makes central vision appear blurry and distorted.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Machado-Joseph Disease ?
Answer: Most individuals with Lyme disease respond well to antibiotics and have full recovery. In a small percentage of individuals, symptoms may continue or recur, requiring additional antibiotic treatment. Varying degrees of permanent joint or nervous system damage may develop in individuals with late-stage Lyme disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Diagnosis of Diabetes and Prediabetes ?
Answer: People can manage their diabetes with meal planning, physical activity, and if needed, medications. More information about taking care of type 1 or type 2 diabetes is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines  - What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes  - Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2
                
These NDIC publications are available at http://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-topics/Diabetes/Pages/default.aspx or by calling 18008608747.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is Situs inversus inherited ?
Answer: Is situs inversus inherited? The genetics of situs inversus is complex. Several familial cases have been reported in which the inheritance has been described as either autosomal recessive (most commonly), autosomal dominant, or X-linked. The condition appears to be genetically heterogeneous, meaning that different genetic factors or genes may cause the condition among different people or families. If situs inversus is associated with another underlying syndrome or condition, the inheritance pattern may be the same as that of the underlying condition. People with questions about genetic risks to themselves or family members are encouraged to speak with a genetics professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V ?
Answer: Mutations in the BSCL2 and GARS genes cause distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V.  The BSCL2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called seipin, whose function is unknown. Mutations in the BSCL2 gene likely alter the structure of seipin, causing it to fold into an incorrect 3-dimensional shape. Research findings indicate that misfolded seipin proteins accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum, which is a structure inside the cell that is involved in protein processing and transport. This accumulation likely damages and kills motor neurons (specialized nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord that control muscle movement), leading to muscle weakness in the hands and feet.  The GARS gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called glycyl-tRNA synthetase, which is involved in the production (synthesis) of proteins. It is unclear how GARS gene mutations lead to distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V. The mutations probably reduce the activity of glycyl-tRNA synthetase. A reduction in the activity of this enzyme may impair transmission of nerve impulses. As a result, nerve cells slowly lose the ability to communicate with muscles in the hands and feet.  Mutations in other genes may also cause distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of the bone are diseases in which malignant (cancer) cells form in bone.    - Having past treatment with radiation can increase the risk of osteosarcoma.    - Signs and symptoms of osteosarcoma and MFH include swelling over a bone or a bony part of the body and joint pain.     - Imaging tests are used to detect (find) osteosarcoma and MFH.    - A biopsy is done to diagnose osteosarcoma.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of the bone are diseases in which malignant (cancer) cells form in bone.
                    Osteosarcoma usually starts in osteoblasts, which are a type of bone cell that becomes new bone tissue. Osteosarcoma is most common in adolescents. It commonly forms in the ends of the long bones of the body, which include bones of the arms and legs. In children and adolescents, it often forms in the bones near the knee. Rarely, osteosarcoma may be found in soft tissue or organs in the chest or abdomen.   Osteosarcoma is the most common type of bone cancer. Malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) of bone is a rare tumor of the bone. It is treated like osteosarcoma.     Ewing sarcoma is another kind of bone cancer, but it is not covered in this summary. See the PDQ summary about Ewing Sarcoma Treatment for more information.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Gilbert syndrome ?
Answer: Gilbert syndrome is a relatively mild condition characterized by periods of elevated levels of a toxic substance called bilirubin in the blood (hyperbilirubinemia). Bilirubin, which has an orange-yellow tint, is produced when red blood cells are broken down. This substance is removed from the body only after it undergoes a chemical reaction in the liver, which converts the toxic form of bilirubin (unconjugated bilirubin) to a nontoxic form called conjugated bilirubin. People with Gilbert syndrome have a buildup of unconjugated bilirubin in their blood (unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia). In affected individuals, bilirubin levels fluctuate and very rarely increase to levels that cause jaundice, which is yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes.  Gilbert syndrome is usually recognized in adolescence. If people with this condition have episodes of hyperbilirubinemia, these episodes are generally mild and typically occur when the body is under stress, for instance because of dehydration, prolonged periods without food (fasting), illness, vigorous exercise, or menstruation. Some people with Gilbert syndrome also experience abdominal discomfort or tiredness. However, approximately 30 percent of people with Gilbert syndrome have no signs or symptoms of the condition and are discovered only when routine blood tests reveal elevated unconjugated bilirubin levels.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison's Disease ?
Answer: Adrenal crisis is treated with adrenal hormones. People with adrenal crisis need immediate treatment. Any delay can cause death. When people with adrenal crisis are vomiting or unconscious and cannot take their medication, the hormones can be given as an injection.
                
A person with adrenal insufficiency should carry a corticosteroid injection at all times and make sure that others know how and when to administer the injection, in case the person becomes unconscious.
                
The dose of corticosteroid needed may vary with a persons age or size. For example, a child younger than 2 years of age can receive 25 milligrams (mg), a child between 2 and 8 years of age can receive 50 mg, and a child older than 8 years should receive the adult dose of 100 mg.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Chronic hiccups ?
Answer: Chronic hiccups are unintentional movements (spasms) of the diaphragm followed by rapid closure of the vocal cords that persist for an extended period of time. Hiccups often develop for no apparent reason and typically go away on their own after a couple minutes. However, chronic hiccups last over two days and in rare cases, may continue for over a month. Hiccups that recur over long periods of time are also considered "chronic." Depending on how long the hiccups last, affected people may become exhausted, dehydrated and/or lose weight due to interruptions in sleep and normal eating patterns. Other complications may include irregular heart beat and gastroesophageal reflux. The exact underlying cause is often unknown; some cases may be caused by surgery, certain medications and/or a variety of health problems such as central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) abnormalities, psychological problems, conditions that irritate the diaphragm, and metabolic diseases. Treatment of chronic hiccups varies but may include medications and/or surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Swallowing Disorders ?
Answer: Changing a person's diet by adding thickeners helps many people, as does learning different ways to eat and chew that reduce the risk for aspiration. Occasionally drug therapy that helps the neurological disorder can also help dysphagia. In a few persons, botulinum toxin injections can help when food or liquid cannot enter the esophagus to get to the stomach. More severely disabled individuals may require surgery or the insertion of feeding tubes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by Floating-Harbor syndrome ?
Answer: Floating-Harbor syndrome is a rare disorder; only about 50 cases have been reported in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for fibrochondrogenesis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of fibrochondrogenesis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fibrochondrogenesis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fibrochondrogenesis 2   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Preaxial deficiency, postaxial polydactyly and hypospadias ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Preaxial deficiency, postaxial polydactyly and hypospadias? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Preaxial deficiency, postaxial polydactyly and hypospadias. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 90% Postaxial hand polydactyly 90% Short distal phalanx of finger 90% Short hallux 90% Aplastic/hypoplastic toenail 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Glandular hypospadias - Short 2nd toe - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Nausea and Vomiting ?
Answer: Nausea is an uneasy or unsettled feeling in the stomach together with an urge to vomit. Nausea and vomiting, or throwing up, are not diseases. They can be symptoms of many different conditions. These include morning sickness during pregnancy, infections, migraine headaches, motion sickness, food poisoning, cancer chemotherapy or other medicines.     For vomiting in children and adults, avoid solid foods until vomiting has stopped for at least six hours. Then work back to a normal diet. Drink small amounts of clear liquids to avoid dehydration.    Nausea and vomiting are common. Usually, they are not serious. You should see a doctor immediately if you suspect poisoning or if you have       - Vomited for longer than 24 hours    -  Blood in the vomit    -  Severe abdominal pain     -  Headache and stiff neck     -  Signs of dehydration, such as dry mouth, infrequent urination or dark urine
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How many people are affected by Crouzon syndrome ?
Answer: Crouzon syndrome is seen in about 16 per million newborns. It is the most common craniosynostosis syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Hydrocephalus due to congenital stenosis of aqueduct of sylvius ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hydrocephalus due to congenital stenosis of aqueduct of sylvius? Males with hydrocephalus due to congenital stenosis of aqueduct of sylvius (HSAS) are typically born with severe hydrocephalus and adducted thumbs (bent towards the palm). Other signs and symptoms may include: Seizures Severe intellectual disability Spasticity Of note, HSAS is one form of L1 syndrome, which is an inherited condition that primarily affects the nervous system. Other forms include MASA syndrome, X-linked complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia type 1, and X-linked complicated corpus callosum agenesis. All of the different forms of L1 syndrome may be observed in affected people within the same family. GeneReviews offers more specific information about the signs and symptoms associated with each form of L1 syndrome. Please click on the link to access this resource. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hydrocephalus due to congenital stenosis of aqueduct of sylvius. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aqueductal stenosis 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 90% Hydrocephalus 90% Increased intracranial pressure 90% Adducted thumb 50% Coarse facial features 7.5% Holoprosencephaly 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Absent septum pellucidum - Agenesis of corpus callosum - Corticospinal tract hypoplasia - Intellectual disability - Macrocephaly - Spastic paraplegia - Spasticity - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Mnire's disease ?
Answer: Mnire's disease is an abnormality of the inner ear. Signs and symptoms may include disabling vertigo or severe dizziness lasting from minutes to hours; tinnitus or a roaring sound in the ears; fluctuating hearing loss; and the sensation of pressure or pain in the affected ear. A small percentage of people have drop attacks, also called spells of Tumarkin. The disorder usually affects only one ear and is a common cause of hearing loss. Some people develop symptoms in both ears many years after their initial diagnosis. The exact cause of Mnire's disease is unknown, but the symptoms are thought to be associated with a change in fluid volume within a portion of the inner ear known as the labyrinth. Treatment may include medications or surgery depending on the severity of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Learning Disabilities ?
Answer: Learning disabilities are disorders that affect the ability to understand or use spoken or written language, do mathematical calculations, coordinate movements, or direct attention. Although learning disabilities occur in very young children, the disorders are usually not recognized until the child reaches school age. Research shows that 8 to 10 percent of American children under 18 years of age have some type of learning disability.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V ?
Answer: Distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V is a progressive disorder that affects nerve cells in the spinal cord. It results in muscle weakness and affects movement of the hands and feet.  Symptoms of distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V usually begin during adolescence, but onset varies from infancy to the mid-thirties. Cramps in the hand brought on by exposure to cold temperatures are often the initial symptom.  The characteristic features of distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V are weakness and wasting (atrophy) of muscles of the hand, specifically on the thumb side of the index finger and in the palm at the base of the thumb. Foot abnormalities, such as a high arch (pes cavus), are also common, and some affected individuals eventually develop problems with walking (gait disturbance). People with this disorder have normal life expectancies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Juberg Marsidi syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Juberg Marsidi syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Juberg Marsidi syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the palate 90% Anteverted nares 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Microcephaly 90% Narrow forehead 90% Short stature 90% Tented upper lip vermilion 90% Behavioral abnormality 50% Genu valgum 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Obesity 50% Seizures 35% Abnormality of the hip bone 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Low posterior hairline 7.5% Wide mouth 7.5% Abnormality of blood and blood-forming tissues - Brachydactyly syndrome - Coarse facial features - Constipation - Decreased testicular size - Delayed skeletal maturation - Dolichocephaly - Drooling - Epicanthus - Exotropia - Gastroesophageal reflux - High palate - Hyperactivity - Hyperreflexia - Hypertelorism - Hypogonadism - Hypoplasia of midface - Hypospadias - Infantile muscular hypotonia - Intellectual disability, progressive - Intellectual disability, severe - Kyphoscoliosis - Lower limb hypertonia - Low-set ears - Macroglossia - Malar flattening - Micropenis - Microtia - Open mouth - Optic atrophy - Paroxysmal bursts of laughter - Pes planus - Phenotypic variability - Posteriorly rotated ears - Protruding tongue - Ptosis - Radial deviation of finger - Renal hypoplasia - Scrotal hypoplasia - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Short neck - Short upper lip - Slender finger - Talipes calcaneovalgus - Talipes equinovarus - Tapered finger - Thick lower lip vermilion - Triangular nasal tip - Upslanted palpebral fissure - U-Shaped upper lip vermilion - Vesicoureteral reflux - Vomiting - Wide nasal bridge - Widely-spaced maxillary central incisors - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Child Sexual Abuse ?
Answer: Sexual abuse is one form of child abuse. It includes a wide range of actions between a child and an adult or older child. Often these involve body contact, but not always. Exposing one's genitals to children or pressuring them for sex is sexual abuse. Using a child for pornography is also sexual abuse.    Most sexual abusers know the child they abuse. They may be family friends, neighbors or babysitters. About one-third of abusers are related to the child. Most abusers are men. If you think a child may have been abused, it's important to report it.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of ARVC:  - Brigham and Women's Hospital  - Cleveland Clinic: How Are Arrhythmias Treated?  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia/Cardiomyopathy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 10  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 11  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 12  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 6  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 7  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 8  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, type 9  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, familial, 11, with mild palmoplantar keratoderma and woolly hair  - St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Coats disease ?
Answer: Coats disease is an eye disorder characterized by abnormal development of the blood vessels in the retina (retinal telangiectasia). Most affected people begin showing symptoms of the condition in childhood. Early signs and symptoms vary but may include vision loss, crossed eyes (strabismus), and a white mass in the pupil behind the lens of the eye (leukocoria). Overtime, coats disease may also lead to retinal detachment, glaucoma, and clouding of the lens of the eye (cataracts) as the disease progresses. In most cases, only one eye is affected (unilateral). The exact underlying cause is not known but some cases may be due to somatic mutations in the NDP gene. Treatment depends on the symptoms present and may include cryotherapy, laser therapy, and/or surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Liddle syndrome ?
Answer: Liddle syndrome is caused by mutations in the SCNN1B or SCNN1G gene. Each of these genes provides instructions for making a piece (subunit) of a protein complex called the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). These channels are found at the surface of certain cells called epithelial cells in many tissues of the body, including the kidneys, where the channels transport sodium into cells.  In the kidney, ENaC channels open in response to signals that sodium levels in the blood are too low, which allows sodium to flow into cells. From the kidney cells, this sodium is returned to the bloodstream (a process called reabsorption) rather than being removed from the body in urine.  Mutations in the SCNN1B or SCNN1G gene change the structure of the respective ENaC subunit. The changes alter a region of the subunit that is involved in signaling for its breakdown (degradation) when it is no longer needed. As a result of the mutations, the subunit proteins are not degraded, and more ENaC channels remain at the cell surface. The increase in channels at the cell surface abnormally increases the reabsorption of sodium (followed by water), which leads to hypertension. Reabsorption of sodium into the blood is linked with removal of potassium from the blood, so excess sodium reabsorption leads to hypokalemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by mucolipidosis II alpha/beta ?
Answer: Mucolipidosis II alpha/beta is a rare disorder, although its exact prevalence is unknown. It is estimated to occur in about 1 in 100,000 to 400,000 individuals worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: The only definitive way to diagnose Alzheimer's disease is to find out whether plaques and tangles exist in brain tissue. To look at brain tissue, doctors perform a brain autopsy, an examination of the brain done after a person dies. Doctors can only make a diagnosis of "possible" or probable Alzheimers disease while a person is alive. Doctors with special training can diagnose Alzheimer's disease correctly up to 90 percent of the time. Doctors who can diagnose Alzheimers include geriatricians, geriatric psychiatrists, and neurologists. A geriatrician specializes in the treatment of older adults. A geriatric psychiatrist specializes in mental problems in older adults. A neurologist specializes in brain and nervous system disorders. To diagnose Alzheimer's disease, doctors may - ask questions about overall health, past medical problems, ability to carry out daily activities, and changes in behavior and personality  - conduct tests to measure memory, problem solving, attention, counting, and language skills   - carry out standard medical tests, such as blood and urine tests  - perform brain scans to look for anything in the brain that does not look normal. ask questions about overall health, past medical problems, ability to carry out daily activities, and changes in behavior and personality conduct tests to measure memory, problem solving, attention, counting, and language skills carry out standard medical tests, such as blood and urine tests perform brain scans to look for anything in the brain that does not look normal.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Narcolepsy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Narcolepsy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Narcolepsy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hallucinations 90% Memory impairment 90% Muscle weakness 90% Reduced consciousness/confusion 90% Sleep disturbance 90% Abnormality of eye movement 50% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Obesity 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% Abnormal rapid eye movement (REM) sleep - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cataplexy - Excessive daytime sleepiness - Heterogeneous - Hypnagogic hallucinations - Hypnopompic hallucinations - Narcolepsy - Paroxysmal drowsiness - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 2 ?
Answer: Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome is an inherited condition that mainly affects the brain, immune system, and skin. It is characterized by early-onset severe brain dysfunction (encephalopathy) that usually results in severe intellectual and physical disability. Additional symptoms may include epilepsy, painful, itchy skin lesion (chilblains), vision problems, and joint stiffness. Symptoms usually progress over several months before the disease course stabilizes. There are six different types of Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome, which are distinguished by the gene that causes the condition: TREX1, RNASEH2A, RNASEH2B, RNASEH2C, SAMHD1, and ADAR genes. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, although rare autosomal dominant cases have been reported. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ?
Answer: Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a life-threatening, neurological disorder most often caused by an adverse reaction to neuroleptic or antipsychotic drugs. Symptoms include high fever, sweating, unstable blood pressure, stupor, muscular rigidity, and autonomic dysfunction. In most cases, the disorder develops within the first 2 weeks of treatment with the drug; however, the disorder may develop any time during the therapy period. The syndrome can also occur in people taking anti-Parkinsonism drugs known as dopaminergics if those drugs are discontinued abruptly.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Do you have information about Child Dental Health
Answer: Summary : Healthy teeth are important to your child's overall health. From the time your child is born, there are things you can do to promote healthy teeth and prevent cavities. For babies, you should clean teeth with a soft, clean cloth or baby's toothbrush. Avoid putting the baby to bed with a bottle and check teeth regularly for spots or stains.    For all children, you should       - Start using a pea-sized amount of fluoride toothpaste when they are two years old. You might start sooner, if a dentist or doctor suggests it.    - Provide healthy foods and limit sweet snacks and drinks    - Schedule regular dental check-ups        Forming good habits at a young age can help your child have healthy teeth for life.     NIH: National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Marden Walker like syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Marden Walker like syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Marden Walker like syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the eyebrow 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Arachnodactyly 90% Blepharophimosis 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Convex nasal ridge 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Disproportionate tall stature 90% Hallux valgus 90% Hypoplasia of the zygomatic bone 90% Long toe 90% Macrotia 90% Narrow nasal bridge 90% Abnormality of dental morphology 50% Bowing of the long bones 50% Delayed skeletal maturation 50% Elbow dislocation 50% Hypertelorism 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Slender long bone 50% Triphalangeal thumb 50% Underdeveloped nasal alae 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Laryngomalacia 7.5% Talipes 7.5% Sclerocornea 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Camptodactyly of toe - Craniosynostosis - Dental crowding - Dislocated radial head - Distal ulnar hypoplasia - Elbow flexion contracture - Femoral bowing - Glenoid fossa hypoplasia - High palate - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Joint contracture of the hand - Knee flexion contracture - Lateral clavicle hook - Long hallux - Long metacarpals - Malar flattening - Narrow foot - Narrow nose - Pectus excavatum - Protruding ear - Single umbilical artery - Slender metacarpals - Stridor - Talipes equinovarus - Thin ribs - Ulnar bowing - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) critical congenital heart disease ?
Answer: Critical congenital heart disease (CCHD) is a term that refers to a group of serious heart defects that are present from birth. These abnormalities result from problems with the formation of one or more parts of the heart during the early stages of embryonic development. CCHD prevents the heart from pumping blood effectively or reduces the amount of oxygen in the blood. As a result, organs and tissues throughout the body do not receive enough oxygen, which can lead to organ damage and life-threatening complications. Individuals with CCHD usually require surgery soon after birth.  Although babies with CCHD may appear healthy for the first few hours or days of life, signs and symptoms soon become apparent. These can include an abnormal heart sound during a heartbeat (heart murmur), rapid breathing (tachypnea), low blood pressure (hypotension), low levels of oxygen in the blood (hypoxemia), and a blue or purple tint to the skin caused by a shortage of oxygen (cyanosis). If untreated, CCHD can lead to shock, coma, and death. However, most people with CCHD now survive past infancy due to improvements in early detection, diagnosis, and treatment.  Some people with treated CCHD have few related health problems later in life. However, long-term effects of CCHD can include delayed development and reduced stamina during exercise. Adults with these heart defects have an increased risk of abnormal heart rhythms, heart failure, sudden cardiac arrest, stroke, and premature death.  Each of the heart defects associated with CCHD affects the flow of blood into, out of, or through the heart. Some of the heart defects involve structures within the heart itself, such as the two lower chambers of the heart (the ventricles) or the valves that control blood flow through the heart. Others affect the structure of the large blood vessels leading into and out of the heart (including the aorta and pulmonary artery). Still others involve a combination of these structural abnormalities.  People with CCHD have one or more specific heart defects. The heart defects classified as CCHD include coarctation of the aorta, double-outlet right ventricle, D-transposition of the great arteries, Ebstein anomaly, hypoplastic left heart syndrome, interrupted aortic arch, pulmonary atresia with intact septum, single ventricle, total anomalous pulmonary venous connection, tetralogy of Fallot, tricuspid atresia, and truncus arteriosus.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Polycythemia vera ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Polycythemia vera? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Polycythemia vera. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abdominal pain 90% Acute leukemia 90% Bruising susceptibility 90% Coronary artery disease 90% Epistaxis 90% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 90% Gingival bleeding 90% Hepatomegaly 90% Migraine 90% Myelodysplasia 90% Splenomegaly 90% Tinnitus 90% Vertigo 90% Weight loss 90% Arthralgia 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Arterial thrombosis 7.5% Cerebral ischemia 7.5% Portal hypertension 7.5% Pruritus 7.5% Thrombophlebitis 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Budd-Chiari syndrome - Cerebral hemorrhage - Increased hematocrit - Increased hemoglobin - Increased megakaryocyte count - Increased red blood cell mass - Leukocytosis - Somatic mutation - Sporadic - Thrombocytopenia - Thrombocytosis - Thromboembolism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Heart Failure ?
Answer: In heart failure, the heart cannot pump enough blood through the body. Heart failure develops over time as the pumping action of the heart gets weaker. Heart failure does not mean that the heart has stopped working or is about to stop working. When the heart is weakened by heart failure, blood and fluid can back up into the lungs and fluid builds up in the feet, ankles, and legs. People with heart failure often experience tiredness and shortness of breath.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is the outlook for Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease ?
Answer: About 70 percent of individuals die within one year. In the early stages of disease, people may have failing memory, behavioral changes, lack of coordination and visual disturbances. As the illness progresses, mental deterioration becomes pronounced and involuntary movements, blindness, weakness of extremities, and coma may occur.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Rheumatoid Arthritis ?
Answer: Medication, exercise, and, in some cases, surgery are common treatments for this disease. Most people who have rheumatoid arthritis take medications. Some drugs only provide relief for pain; others reduce inflammation. People with rheumatoid arthritis can also benefit from exercise, but they need to maintain a good balance between rest and exercise. They should get rest when the disease is active and get more exercise when it is not. In some cases, a doctor will recommend surgery to restore function or relieve pain in a damaged joint. Several types of surgery are available to patients with severe joint damage. Joint replacement and tendon reconstruction are examples.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Camptobrachydactyly ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Camptobrachydactyly? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Camptobrachydactyly. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Toe syndactyly 50% Ulnar deviation of finger 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 7.5% Hypoplastic toenails 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Congenital finger flexion contractures - Hand polydactyly - Septate vagina - Short toe - Syndactyly - Urinary incontinence - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ?
Answer: Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is a disorder of water balance. The body normally balances fluid intake with the excretion of fluid in urine. However, people with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus produce too much urine (polyuria), which causes them to be excessively thirsty (polydipsia). Affected individuals can quickly become dehydrated if they do not drink enough water, especially in hot weather or when they are sick.  Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus can be either acquired or hereditary. The acquired form is brought on by certain drugs and chronic diseases and can occur at any time during life. The hereditary form is caused by genetic mutations, and its signs and symptoms usually become apparent within the first few months of life.  Infants with hereditary nephrogenic diabetes insipidus may eat poorly and fail to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive). They may also be irritable and experience fevers, diarrhea, and vomiting. Recurrent episodes of dehydration can lead to slow growth and delayed development. If the condition is not well-managed, over time it can damage the bladder and kidneys leading to pain, infections, and kidney failure. With appropriate treatment, affected individuals usually have few complications and a normal lifespan.  Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus should not be confused with diabetes mellitus, which is much more common. Diabetes mellitus is characterized by high blood sugar levels resulting from a shortage of the hormone insulin or an insensitivity to this hormone. Although nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and diabetes mellitus have some features in common, they are separate disorders with different causes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Radiation Exposure
Answer: Summary : Radiation is energy that travels in the form of waves or high-speed particles. It occurs naturally in sunlight. Man-made radiation is used in X-rays, nuclear weapons, nuclear power plants and cancer treatment.     If you are exposed to small amounts of radiation over a long time, it raises your risk of cancer. It can also cause mutations in your genes, which you could pass on to any children you have after the exposure. A lot of radiation over a short period, such as from a radiation emergency, can cause burns or radiation sickness. Symptoms of radiation sickness include nausea, weakness, hair loss, skin burns and reduced organ function. If the exposure is large enough, it can cause premature aging or even death. You may be able to take medicine to reduce the radioactive material in your body.     Environmental Protection Agency
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Ankylosing spondylitis ?
Answer: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a type of chronic, inflammatory arthritis that mainly affects the spine. It usually begins with inflammation of the joints between the pelvic bones and spine, gradually spreading to the joints between the vertebrae. Signs and symptoms usually begin in adolescence or early adulthood and may include back pain and stiffness. Back movement gradually becomes more limited as the vertebrae fuse together. The condition may also affect the shoulders; ribs; hips; knees; and feet; as well as the eyes; bowel; and very rarely, the heart and lungs. AS is likely caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors; variations in several genes are thought to affect the risk to develop AS. In most cases, treatment involves exercise and medications to relieve pain and inflammation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?
Answer: Controlling the Infection The main goal of treatment is to control the infection. The number and types of treatment will vary, depending on how far the disease has advanced. Any type of treatment requires the patient to keep up good daily care at home. The doctor may also suggest changing certain behaviors, such as quitting smoking, as a way to improve treatment outcome. Treatments may include deep cleaning, medications, surgery, and bone and tissue grafts. Deep Cleaning (Scaling and Planing) In deep cleaning, the dentist, periodontist, or dental hygienist removes the plaque through a method called scaling and root planing. Scaling means scraping off the tartar from above and below the gum line. Root planing gets rid of rough spots on the tooth root where the germs gather, and helps remove bacteria that contribute to the disease. In some cases a laser may be used to remove plaque and tartar. This procedure can result in less bleeding, swelling, and discomfort compared to traditional deep cleaning methods. Medications Medications may be used with treatment that includes scaling and root planing, but they cannot always take the place of surgery. Depending on how far the disease has progressed, the dentist or periodontist may still suggest surgical treatment. Long-term studies are needed to find out if using medications reduces the need for surgery and whether they are effective over a long period of time. Flap Surgery Surgery might be necessary if inflammation and deep pockets remain following treatment with deep cleaning and medications. A dentist or periodontist may perform flap surgery to remove tartar deposits in deep pockets or to reduce the periodontal pocket and make it easier for the patient, dentist, and hygienist to keep the area clean. This common surgery involves lifting back the gums and removing the tartar. The gums are then sutured back in place so that the tissue fits snugly around the tooth again. After surgery, the gums will shrink to fit more tightly around the tooth. This sometimes results in the teeth appearing longer. Bone and Tissue Grafts In addition to flap surgery, your periodontist or dentist may suggest procedures to help regenerate any bone or gum tissue lost to periodontitis. - Bone grafting,  in which natural or synthetic bone is placed in the area of bone loss, can help promote bone growth. A technique that can be used with bone grafting is called guided tissue regeneration. In this procedure, a small piece of mesh-like material is inserted between the bone and gum tissue. This keeps the gum tissue from growing into the area where the bone should be, allowing the bone and connective tissue to regrow. Bone grafting,  in which natural or synthetic bone is placed in the area of bone loss, can help promote bone growth. A technique that can be used with bone grafting is called guided tissue regeneration. In this procedure, a small piece of mesh-like material is inserted between the bone and gum tissue. This keeps the gum tissue from growing into the area where the bone should be, allowing the bone and connective tissue to regrow. - Growth factors  proteins that can help your body naturally regrow bone  may also be used. In cases where gum tissue has been lost, your dentist or periodontist may suggest a soft tissue graft, in which synthetic material or tissue taken from another area of your mouth is used to cover exposed tooth roots. Growth factors  proteins that can help your body naturally regrow bone  may also be used. In cases where gum tissue has been lost, your dentist or periodontist may suggest a soft tissue graft, in which synthetic material or tissue taken from another area of your mouth is used to cover exposed tooth roots. Since each case is different, it is not possible to predict with certainty which grafts will be successful over the long-term. Treatment results depend on many things, including how far the disease has progressed, how well the patient keeps up with oral care at home, and certain risk factors, such as smoking, which may lower the chances of success. Ask your periodontist what the level of success might be in your particular case. Treatment Results Treatment results depend on many things, including how far the disease has progressed, how well the patient keeps up with home care, and certain risk factors, such as smoking, which may lower the chances of success. Ask your periodontist what the likelihood of success might be in your particular case. Consider Getting a Second Opinion When considering any extensive dental or medical treatment options, you should think about getting a second opinion. To find a dentist or periodontist for a second opinion, call your local dental society. They can provide you with names of practitioners in your area. Also, dental schools may sometimes be able to offer a second opinion. Call the dental school in your area to find out whether it offers this service.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) is a genetic condition that is characterized by the growth of cysts in the kidneys (which lead to kidney failure) and liver and problems in other organs, such as the blood vessels in the brain and heart. The severity varies from person to person. The signs of ARPKD frequently begin before birth, so it is often called infantile PKD but some people do not develop symptoms until later in childhood or even adulthood. Children born with ARPKD often, but not always, develop kidney failure before reaching adulthood; babies with the worst cases die hours or days after birth due to respiratory difficulties or respiratory failure. Liver scarring occurs in all patients. The condition is caused by a mutation in the PKHD1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Some symptoms of the condition may be controlled by medicines, antibiotics, healthy diet, and growth hormones.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteoarthropathy of fingers familial ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteoarthropathy of fingers familial? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteoarthropathy of fingers familial. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Abnormality of the metaphyses 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Broad phalanx - Short phalanx of finger - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Pilodental dysplasia with refractive errors ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pilodental dysplasia with refractive errors? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pilodental dysplasia with refractive errors. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Abnormality of dental morphology 90% Anteverted nares 90% Hypermetropia 90% Hypohidrosis 90% Irregular hyperpigmentation 90% Long philtrum 90% Myopia 90% Reduced number of teeth 90% Thin vermilion border 90% Astigmatism 50% Hyperkeratosis 50% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Abnormality of the nail - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Brittle hair - Conical incisor - Ectodermal dysplasia - Follicular hyperkeratosis - Hypodontia - Reticular hyperpigmentation - Sparse scalp hair - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ?
Answer: Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is a disorder that results in the development of multiple abnormalities in the blood vessels.  In the circulatory system, blood carrying oxygen from the lungs is normally pumped by the heart into the arteries at high pressure. The pressure allows the blood to make its way through the arteries to the smaller vessels (arterioles and capillaries) that supply oxygen to the body's tissues. By the time blood reaches the capillaries, the pressure is much lower. The blood then proceeds from the capillaries into veins, through which it eventually returns to the heart.  In hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, some arterial vessels flow directly into veins rather than into the capillaries. These abnormalities are called arteriovenous malformations. When they occur in vessels near the surface of the skin, where they are visible as red markings, they are known as telangiectases (the singular is telangiectasia).  Without the normal buffer of the capillaries, the blood moves from the arteries at high pressure into the thinner walled, less elastic veins. The extra pressure tends to strain and enlarge these blood vessels, and may result in compression or irritation of adjacent tissues and frequent episodes of severe bleeding (hemorrhage). Nosebleeds are very common in people with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, and more serious problems may arise from hemorrhages in the brain, liver, lungs, or other organs.  Forms of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia include type 1, type 2, type 3, and juvenile polyposis/hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome. People with type 1 tend to develop symptoms earlier than those with type 2, and are more likely to have blood vessel malformations in the lungs and brain. Type 2 and type 3 may be associated with a higher risk of liver involvement. Women are more likely than men to develop blood vessel malformations in the lungs with type 1, and are also at higher risk of liver involvement with both type 1 and type 2. Individuals with any form of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, however, can have any of these problems.  Juvenile polyposis/hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome is a condition that involves both arteriovenous malformations and a tendency to develop growths (polyps) in the gastrointestinal tract. Types 1, 2 and 3 do not appear to increase the likelihood of such polyps.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Sports Safety
Answer: Summary : Playing sports can be fun, but it can also be dangerous if you are not careful. You can help prevent injuries by       - Getting a physical to make sure you are healthy before you start playing your sport    - Wearing the right shoes, gear, and equipment     - Drinking lots of water     - Warming up and stretching       If you have already hurt yourself playing a sport, make sure you recover completely before you start up again. If possible, protect the injured part of your body with padding, a brace, or special equipment. When you do start playing again, start slowly.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ?
Answer: How might hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia be treated? There is no specific treatment for HED. The condition is managed by treating the various symptoms. For patients with abnormal or no sweat glands, it is recommended that they live in places with air conditioning at home, school and work. In order to maintain normal body temperature, they should frequently drink cool liquids and wear cool clothing. Dental defects can be managed with dentures and implants. Artificial tears are used to prevent cornea damage for patients that do not produce enough tears. Surgery to repair a cleft palate is also helpful in improving speech and facial deformities.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Rett syndrome ?
Answer: Rett syndrome is a brain disorder that occurs almost exclusively in girls. The most common form of the condition is known as classic Rett syndrome. After birth, girls with classic Rett syndrome have 6 to 18 months of apparently normal development before developing severe problems with language and communication, learning, coordination, and other brain functions. Early in childhood, affected girls lose purposeful use of their hands and begin making repeated hand wringing, washing, or clapping motions. They tend to grow more slowly than other children and have a small head size (microcephaly). Other signs and symptoms that can develop include breathing abnormalities, seizures, an abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis), and sleep disturbances.  Researchers have described several variant or atypical forms of Rett syndrome, which can be milder or more severe than the classic form.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for supravalvular aortic stenosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of supravalvular aortic stenosis:  - Children's Hospital of Philadelphia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Supravalvar aortic stenosis  - Monroe Carell Jr. Children's Hospital at Vanderbilt   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is TARP syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is TARP syndrome inherited? TARP syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. This means that the mutated gene responsible for TARP syndrome (RBM10) is located on the X chromosome, and typically only affects males. Males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome, while females have two X chromosomes. If a female has one mutated copy of RBM10 and one normal copy, she would typically be an unaffected carrier of this condition. Occasionally, female carriers of an X-linked recessive condition may have varying degrees of signs or symptoms of the condition; this is due to differences in X chromosome inactivation. When a female carrier of an X-linked condition has children, each daughter has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to also be a carrier, and a 50% risk to not be a carrier (and have 2 normal copies of the gene). Each son has a 50% risk to be affected and a 50% risk to be unaffected.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Tremors, nystagmus and duodenal ulcers ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Tremors, nystagmus and duodenal ulcers? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tremors, nystagmus and duodenal ulcers. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the gastric mucosa 90% Nystagmus 90% Incoordination 50% Abnormality of the cerebellum - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Duodenal ulcer - Tremor - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Progressive bulbar palsy ?
Answer: Progressive bulbar palsy involves the brain stem. The brain stem is the part of the brain needed for swallowing, speaking, chewing, and other functions. Signs and symptoms of progressive bulbar palsy include difficulty swallowing, weak jaw and facial muscles, progressive loss of speech, and weakening of the tongue. Additional symptoms include less prominent weakness in the arms and legs, and outbursts of laughing or crying (called emotional lability). Progressive bulbar palsy is considered a variant form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Many people with progressive bulbar palsy later develop ALS. While there is no cure for progressive bulbar palsy or for ALS, doctors can treat symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria inherited ?
Answer: Methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When caused by mutations in the HCFC1 gene, the condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The HCFC1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Azoospermia - Heterogeneous - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of De Sanctis-Cacchione syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of De Sanctis-Cacchione syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for De Sanctis-Cacchione syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Areflexia - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Choreoathetosis - Conjunctivitis - Cutaneous photosensitivity - Defective DNA repair after ultraviolet radiation damage - Dermal atrophy - Ectropion - Entropion - Gonadal hypoplasia - Hyporeflexia - Intellectual disability - Keratitis - Mental deterioration - Microcephaly - Olivopontocerebellar atrophy - Photophobia - Poikiloderma - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Severe short stature - Spasticity - Telangiectasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Diagnosis of Diabetes and Prediabetes ?
Answer: Prediabetes is when blood glucose levels are higher than normal but not high enough for a diagnosis of diabetes. Prediabetes means a person is at increased risk for developing type 2 diabetes, as well as for heart disease and stroke. Many people with prediabetes develop type 2 diabetes within 10 years.
                
However, modest weight loss and moderate physical activity can help people with prediabetes delay or prevent type 2 diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Maturity-onset diabetes of the young, type 5 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Maturity-onset diabetes of the young, type 5? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Maturity-onset diabetes of the young, type 5. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Multicystic kidney dysplasia 90% Nephropathy 90% Diabetes mellitus 50% Biliary tract abnormality 33% Elevated hepatic transaminases 33% Elevated serum creatinine 33% Glucose intolerance 33% Glycosuria 33% Gout 33% Proteinuria 33% Stage 5 chronic kidney disease 33% Abnormal localization of kidney 7.5% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of male internal genitalia 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the pancreas 7.5% Arthritis 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hepatic steatosis 7.5% Hyperuricemia 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Joint hypermobility 7.5% Mandibular prognathia 7.5% Pyloric stenosis 7.5% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 7.5% Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency 6/7 Pancreatic hypoplasia 5/6 Renal cyst 19/23 Maturity-onset diabetes of the young 10/13 Abnormality of alkaline phosphatase activity 4/7 Multiple glomerular cysts 4/23 Bicornuate uterus 1/23 Hypoplasia of the uterus 1/23 Renal hypoplasia 1/23 Unilateral renal agenesis 1/23 Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebral cortical atrophy - Decreased numbers of nephrons - Epididymal cyst - Hypospadias - Nephrolithiasis - Onset - Phenotypic variability - Ureteropelvic junction obstruction - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Huntington disease-like syndrome inherited ?
Answer: HDL1, HDL2, and HDL4 are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.  As the mutation responsible for HDL2 or HDL4 is passed down from one generation to the next, the length of the repeated DNA segment may increase. A longer repeat segment is often associated with more severe signs and symptoms that appear earlier in life. This phenomenon is known as anticipation.  HDL3 is probably inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is atopic dermatitis inherited ?
Answer: Allergic disorders tend to run in families; having a parent with atopic dermatitis, asthma, or hay fever raises the chances a person will develop atopic dermatitis. When associated with FLG gene mutations, atopic dermatitis follows an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered FLG gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of the disorder. Individuals with two altered copies of the gene are more likely to develop the disorder and can have more severe signs and symptoms than individuals with a single altered copy. When associated with other genetic factors, the inheritance pattern is unclear.  People with changes in one of the genes associated with atopic dermatitis, including FLG, inherit an increased risk of this condition, not the condition itself. Not all people with this condition have a mutation in an associated gene, and not all people with a variation in an associated gene will develop the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) 1q21.1 microdeletion ?
Answer: 1q21.1 microdeletion is a chromosomal change in which a small piece of chromosome 1 is deleted in each cell. The deletion occurs on the long (q) arm of the chromosome in a region designated q21.1. This chromosomal change increases the risk of delayed development, intellectual disability, physical abnormalities, and neurological and psychiatric problems. However, some people with a 1q21.1 microdeletion do not appear to have any associated features.  About 75 percent of all children with a 1q21.1 microdeletion have delayed development, particularly affecting the development of motor skills such as sitting, standing, and walking. The intellectual disability and learning problems associated with this genetic change are usually mild.  Distinctive facial features can also be associated with 1q21.1 microdeletions. The changes are usually subtle and can include a prominent forehead; a large, rounded nasal tip; a long space between the nose and upper lip (philtrum); and a high, arched roof of the mouth (palate). Other common signs and symptoms of 1q21.1 microdeletions include an unusually small head (microcephaly), short stature, and eye problems such as clouding of the lenses (cataracts). Less frequently, 1q21.1 microdeletions are associated with heart defects, abnormalities of the genitalia or urinary system, bone abnormalities (particularly in the hands and feet), and hearing loss.  Neurological problems that have been reported in people with a 1q21.1 microdeletion include seizures and weak muscle tone (hypotonia). Psychiatric or behavioral problems affect a small percentage of people with this genetic change. These include developmental conditions called autism spectrum disorders that affect communication and social interaction, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and sleep disturbances. Studies suggest that deletions of genetic material from the 1q21.1 region may also be risk factors for schizophrenia.  Some people with a 1q21.1 microdeletion do not have any of the intellectual, physical, or psychiatric features described above. In these individuals, the microdeletion is often detected when they undergo genetic testing because they have a relative with the chromosomal change. It is unknown why 1q21.1 microdeletions cause cognitive and physical changes in some individuals but few or no health problems in others, even within the same family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for GM1 gangliosidosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of GM1 gangliosidosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Gangliosidosis GM1 type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Gangliosidosis generalized GM1 type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Infantile GM1 gangliosidosis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Juvenile GM>1< gangliosidosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Laron syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Laron syndrome:  - Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh: Growth Hormone Treatment  - Cinncinati Children's Hospital Medical Center: Growth Hormone Therapy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Laron-type isolated somatotropin defect   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Duane syndrome type 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Duane syndrome type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Duane syndrome type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Ophthalmoparesis 90% Strabismus 90% Anteverted nares 50% Blepharophimosis 50% Deeply set eye 50% Amblyopia 48% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 7.5% Abnormal localization of kidney 7.5% Abnormality of the pupil 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the iris 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 7.5% Brachydactyly syndrome 7.5% Chorioretinal coloboma 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% External ear malformation 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Heterochromia iridis 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Optic atrophy 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Short neck 7.5% Talipes 7.5% Visual impairment 7.5% Wide nasal bridge 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Duane anomaly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Potocki-Shaffer syndrome ?
Answer: Potocki-Shaffer syndrome is a contiguous gene deletion syndrome associated with deletions in a specific region of chromosome 11 (11p11.2). The characteristic features of Potocki-Shaffer syndrome include openings in the two bones that form the top and sides of the skull (enlarged parietal foramina), multiple benign bone tumors called exostoses, intellectual disability, developmental delay, a distinctive facial appearance, autism and problems with vision and hearing. In some cases, individuals with the syndrome may have a defect in the heart, kidneys, or urinary tract. The features of Potocki-Shaffer syndrome result from the loss of several genes on the short (p) arm of chromosome 11. In particular, the deletion of a gene called ALX4 causes enlarged parietal foramina, while the loss of another gene, EXT2, causes the multiple exostoses. Another condition called WAGR syndrome is caused by a deletion of genetic material in the p arm of chromosome 11, specifically at position 11p13. Occasionally, a deletion is large enough to include the 11p11.2 and 11p13 regions. Individuals with such a deletion have signs and symptoms of both Potocki-Shaffer syndrome and WAGR syndrome. A referral to an early childhood intervention and developmental-behavioral specialist at the time of diagnosis and to have an evaluation for vision and hearing problems, as well as a full skeletal survey at the time of diagnosis or by age 3 years, whichever is later, is recommended.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Lenz microphthalmia syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Lenz microphthalmia syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Lenz microphthalmia syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 90% Abnormality of dental morphology 50% Abnormality of the ureter 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Chorioretinal coloboma 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% External ear malformation 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Glaucoma 50% Iris coloboma 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Microcephaly 50% Microcornea 50% Optic nerve coloboma 50% Oral cleft 50% Preaxial hand polydactyly 50% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 50% Short stature 50% Abnormality of the clavicle 7.5% Abnormality of the palpebral fissures 7.5% Abnormality of the shoulder 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Delayed eruption of teeth 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hyperlordosis 7.5% Kyphosis 7.5% Long thorax 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Preauricular skin tag 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Self-injurious behavior 7.5% Visual impairment 7.5% Webbed neck 7.5% Autistic behavior 5% Pulmonary hypoplasia 5% Abnormal palmar dermatoglyphics - Abnormality of the pinna - Aganglionic megacolon - Agenesis of maxillary lateral incisor - Aggressive behavior - Anal atresia - Anophthalmia - Bicuspid aortic valve - Blindness - Camptodactyly - Ciliary body coloboma - Cleft upper lip - Clinodactyly - Dental crowding - Down-sloping shoulders - Growth delay - High palate - Hydroureter - Hypospadias - Intellectual disability - Joint contracture of the hand - Kyphoscoliosis - Low-set ears - Lumbar hyperlordosis - Microphthalmia - Motor delay - Muscular hypotonia - Narrow chest - Overfolded helix - Pectus excavatum - Ptosis - Pyloric stenosis - Radial deviation of finger - Rectal prolapse - Recurrent otitis media - Renal hypoplasia - Self-mutilation - Short clavicles - Spastic diplegia - Syndactyly - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Accessory navicular bone ?
Answer: An accessory navicular bone is a small bone located in the middle of the foot. It is near the navicular bone, the bone that goes across the foot near the instep. It is a common trait, estimated to be in approximately 2 to 12% of the general population and up to 14% of children. This bone may develop a bump that can cause irritation, swelling, and pain. Click here to view a diagram of the foot.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Cushing's Syndrome ?
Answer: Cushing's syndrome is a hormonal disorder. The cause is long-term exposure to too much cortisol, a hormone that your adrenal gland makes. Sometimes, taking synthetic hormone medicine to treat an inflammatory disease leads to Cushing's. Some kinds of tumors produce a hormone that can cause your body to make too much cortisol.    Cushing's syndrome is rare. Some symptoms are       - Upper body obesity     - Thin arms and legs    - Severe fatigue and muscle weakness    - High blood pressure    - High blood sugar    - Easy bruising       Lab tests can show if you have it and find the cause. Your treatment will depend on why you have too much cortisol. If it is because you have been taking synthetic hormones, a lower dose may control your symptoms. If the cause is a tumor, surgery and other therapies may be needed.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is giant congenital melanocytic nevus inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from a mutation in the body's cells that occurs after conception. This alteration is called a somatic mutation. A somatic mutation in one copy of the NRAS or BRAF gene is sufficient to cause this disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to proopiomelanocortin deficiency ?
Answer: POMC deficiency is caused by mutations in the POMC gene, which provides instructions for making the proopiomelanocortin protein. This protein is cut (cleaved) into smaller pieces called peptides that have different functions in the body. One of these peptides, ACTH, stimulates the release of another hormone called cortisol from the adrenal glands. Cortisol is involved in the maintenance of blood sugar levels. Another peptide, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (-MSH), plays a role in the production of the pigment that gives skin and hair their color. The -MSH peptide and another peptide called beta-melanocyte stimulating hormone (-MSH) act in the brain to help maintain the balance between energy from food taken into the body and energy spent by the body. The correct balance is important to control eating and weight.  POMC gene mutations that cause POMC deficiency result in production of an abnormally short version of the POMC protein or no protein at all. As a result, there is a shortage of the peptides made from POMC, including ACTH, -MSH, and -MSH. Without ACTH, there is a reduction in cortisol production, leading to adrenal insufficiency. Decreased -MSH in the skin reduces pigment production, resulting in the red hair and pale skin often seen in people with POMC deficiency. Loss of -MSH and -MSH in the brain dysregulates the body's energy balance, leading to overeating and severe obesity.  POMC deficiency is a rare cause of obesity; POMC gene mutations are not frequently associated with more common, complex forms of obesity. Researchers are studying other factors that are likely involved in these forms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) renal hypouricemia ?
Answer: Renal hypouricemia is a kidney (renal) disorder that results in a reduced amount of uric acid in the blood. Uric acid is a byproduct of certain normal chemical reactions in the body. In the bloodstream it acts as an antioxidant, protecting cells from the damaging effects of unstable molecules called free radicals. However, having too much uric acid in the body is toxic, so excess uric acid is removed from the body in urine.  People with renal hypouricemia have little to no uric acid in their blood; they release an excessive amount of it in the urine. In many affected individuals, renal hypouricemia causes no signs or symptoms. However, some people with this condition develop kidney problems. After strenuous exercise, they can develop exercise-induced acute kidney injury, which causes pain in their sides and lower back as well as nausea and vomiting that can last several hours.  Because an excessive amount of uric acid passes through the kidneys to be excreted in urine in people with renal hypouricemia, they have an increased risk of developing kidney stones (nephrolithiasis) formed from uric acid crystals. These uric acid stones can damage the kidneys and lead to episodes of blood in the urine (hematuria). Rarely, people with renal hypouricemia develop life-threatening kidney failure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the stages of Parathyroid Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - After parathyroid cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread to other parts of the body.    - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - There is no standard staging process for parathyroid cancer.
                
                
                    After parathyroid cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread to other parts of the body is called staging. The following imaging tests may be used to determine if cancer has spread to other parts of the body such as the lungs, liver, bone, heart, pancreas, or lymph nodes:         -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if parathyroid cancer spreads to the lung, the cancer cells in the lung are actually parathyroid cancer cells. The disease is metastatic parathyroid cancer, not lung cancer.
                
                
                    There is no standard staging process for parathyroid cancer.
                    Parathyroid cancer is described as either localized or metastatic:         - Localized parathyroid cancer is found in a parathyroid gland and may have spread to nearby tissues.    - Metastatic parathyroid cancer has spread to other parts of the body, such as the lungs, liver, bone, sac around the heart, pancreas, or lymph nodes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How to diagnose Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome ?
Answer: Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) is diagnosed based on your medical history, signs and symptoms, and test results.
                
Specialists Involved
                
A critical care specialist, pulmonologist (lung specialist), and/or sleep specialist may diagnose and treat your condition.
                
A sleep specialist is a doctor who diagnoses and treats sleep problems. Examples of such doctors include lung and nerve specialists and ear, nose, and throat specialists. Other types of doctors also can be sleep specialists.
                
Your health care team also may include:
                
A registered dietitian or nutritionist to help you plan and follow a healthy diet. (Your primary care doctor also might oversee weight-loss treatment and progress.)
                
An exercise physiologist or trainer to assess your fitness level and help create a physical activity plan that's safe for you.
                
A bariatric surgeon if weight-loss surgery is an option for you.
                
Medical History and Physical Exam
                
Your doctor will ask about your signs and symptoms, such as loud snoring or daytime sleepiness. He or she also may ask about your use of alcohol and certain medicines, such as sedatives and narcotics. These substances can worsen OHS.
                
During the physical exam, your doctor will listen to your heart with a stethoscope. He or she also will check to see whether another disease or condition could be the cause of your poor breathing.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
In OHS, poor breathing leads to too much carbon dioxide and too little oxygen in the blood. An arterial blood gas test can measure the levels of these gases in your blood.
                
For this test, a blood sample is taken from an artery, usually in your wrist. The sample is then sent to a laboratory, where the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels are measured.
                
Other tests also can measure the carbon dioxide level or oxygen level in your blood. These tests include a serum bicarbonate test and pulse oximetry.
                
A serum bicarbonate test measures the amount of carbon dioxide in the liquid part of your blood, called the serum. For this test, a blood sample is taken from a vein, usually in your wrist or hand.
                
Pulse oximetry measures the level of oxygen in your blood. For this test, a small sensor is attached to your finger or ear. The sensor uses light to estimate how much oxygen is in your blood.
                
Other Tests
                
Your doctor may recommend other tests to help check for conditions and problems related to OHS.
                
Polysomnogram
                
A polysomnogram (PSG) is a type of sleep study. You usually have to stay overnight at a sleep center for a PSG. The test records brain activity, eye movements, heart rate, and blood pressure.
                
A PSG also records the amount of oxygen in your blood, how much air is moving through your nose while you breathe, snoring, and chest movements. The chest movements show whether you're making an effort to breathe.
                
Your doctor might use the PSG results to help diagnose sleep-related breathing disorders, such as sleep apnea.
                
Lung Function Tests
                
Lung function tests, also called pulmonary function tests, measure how well your lungs work. For example, these tests show:
                
How much air you can take into your lungs. This amount is compared with that of other people your age, height, and sex. This allows your doctor to see whether you're in the normal range.
                
How much air you can blow out of your lungs and how fast you can do it.
                
How well your lungs deliver oxygen to your blood.
                
The strength of your breathing muscles.
                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x ray is a test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. This test can help rule out other conditions that might be causing your signs and symptoms.
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
An EKG is a test that detects and records the heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast the heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through your heart.
                
The results from an EKG might show whether OHS has affected your heart function.
                
Other Tests
                
A complete blood count (CBC) can show whether your body is making too many red blood cells as a result of OHS. A CBC measures many parts of your blood, including red blood cells.
                
A toxicology screen is a group of tests that shows which medicines and drugs you've taken and how much of them you've taken. A blood or urine sample usually is collected for a toxicology screen.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome ?
Answer: How might Dyggve-Melchior-Clausen syndrome be treated? Treatment of individuals with DMC syndrome depends on the affected person's symptoms and is usually supportive. There is no cure for this condition. Treatments might include spinal fusion of the segments of the spinal column at the top of the spine or other means of vertebral stabilization. Additional surgical techniques may be used to correct various skeletal abnormalities such as dislocation of the shoulder and hip joints. In some cases, hip replacement is required. Children with DMC syndrome may benefit from early intervention and special educational programs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by preeclampsia ?
Answer: Preeclampsia is a common condition in all populations, occurring in 2 to 8 percent of pregnancies. It occurs more frequently in women of African or Hispanic descent than it does in women of European descent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: ADH  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Diabetes Insipidus - Central   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Mental retardation, macrocephaly, short stature and craniofacial dysmorphism ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mental retardation, macrocephaly, short stature and craniofacial dysmorphism? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mental retardation, macrocephaly, short stature and craniofacial dysmorphism. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Astigmatism 5% Myopia 5% Patellar subluxation 5% Psychosis 5% Abnormality of the musculature - Adrenal medullary hypoplasia - Broad forehead - Coarse facial features - Delayed speech and language development - Dolichocephaly - Intellectual disability - Macrocephaly - Mandibular prognathia - Megalencephaly - Optic atrophy - Pointed chin - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome ?
Answer: - Cyclic vomiting syndrome, sometimes referred to as CVS, is an increasingly recognized disorder with sudden, repeated attacksalso called episodesof severe nausea, vomiting, and physical exhaustion that occur with no apparent cause.  - The disorder can affect a person for months, years, or decades.  - The cause of cyclic vomiting syndrome is unknown.  - The severe vomiting and retching that define cyclic vomiting syndrome increase the chance of developing several complications, including dehydration, esophagitis, a Mallory-Weiss tear, and tooth decay.  - Intensity of symptoms will vary as a person cycles through four distinct phases of an episode.  - The main symptoms of cyclic vomiting syndrome are severe nausea and sudden vomiting lasting hours to days.  - People with cyclic vomiting syndrome should get plenty of rest and take medications to prevent a vomiting episode, stop an episode in progress, speed up recovery, or relieve associated symptoms.  - During the well phase, a balanced diet and regular meals are important. A health care provider will assist with planning a return to a regular diet.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 ?
Answer: Mutations in one of four different genes involved in sodium regulation cause autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive PHA1. Mutations in the NR3C2 gene cause autosomal dominant PHA1. This gene provides instructions for making the mineralocorticoid receptor protein. Mutations in the SCNN1A, SCNN1B, or SCNN1G genes cause autosomal recessive PHA1. Each of these three genes provides instructions for making one of the pieces (subunits) of a protein complex called the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC).  The mineralocorticoid receptor regulates specialized proteins in the cell membrane that control the transport of sodium or potassium into cells. In response to signals that sodium levels are low, such as the presence of the hormone aldosterone, the mineralocorticoid receptor increases the number and activity of these proteins at the cell membrane of certain kidney cells. One of these proteins is ENaC, which transports sodium into the cell; another protein simultaneously transports sodium out of the cell and potassium into the cell. These proteins help keep sodium in the body through a process called reabsorption and remove potassium from the body through a process called secretion.  Mutations in the NR3C2 gene lead to a nonfunctional or abnormally functioning mineralocorticoid receptor protein that cannot properly regulate the specialized proteins that transport sodium and potassium. As a result, sodium reabsorption and potassium secretion are both decreased, causing hyponatremia and hyperkalemia.  Mutations in the SCNN1A, SCNN1B, and SCNN1G genes result in reduced functioning or nonfunctioning ENaC channels. As in autosomal dominant PHA1, the reduction or absence of ENaC function in the kidneys leads to hyponatremia and hyperkalemia. In addition, nonfunctional ENaC channels in other body systems lead to additional signs and symptoms of autosomal recessive PHA1, including lung infections and skin lesions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Meesmann corneal dystrophy ?
Answer: What causes Meesmann corneal dystrophy? Meesmann corneal dystrophy is a genetic disease. It can be caused by mutations in either the KRT12 or KRT3 gene. These genes are thought to play an important role in maintaining normal corneal epithelial function. Meesmann corneal dystrophy is passed through families in an autosomal dominant fashion.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 ?
Answer: Mutations in the ATXN1 gene cause SCA1. The ATXN1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called ataxin-1. This protein is found throughout the body, but its function is unknown. Within cells, ataxin-1 is located in the nucleus. Researchers believe that ataxin-1 may be involved in regulating various aspects of producing proteins, including the first stage of protein production (transcription) and processing RNA, a chemical cousin of DNA.  The ATXN1 gene mutations that cause SCA1 involve a DNA segment known as a CAG trinucleotide repeat. This segment is made up of a series of three DNA building blocks (cytosine, adenine, and guanine) that appear multiple times in a row. Normally, the CAG segment is repeated 4 to 39 times within the gene. In people with SCA1, the CAG segment is repeated 40 to more than 80 times. People with 40 to 50 repeats tend to first experience signs and symptoms of SCA1 in mid-adulthood, while people with more than 70 repeats usually have signs and symptoms by their teens.  An increase in the length of the CAG segment leads to the production of an abnormally long version of the ataxin-1 protein that folds into the wrong 3-dimensional shape. This abnormal protein clusters with other proteins to form clumps (aggregates) within the nucleus of the cells. These aggregates prevent the ataxin-1 protein from functioning normally, which damages cells and leads to cell death. For reasons that are unclear, aggregates of ataxin-1 are found only in the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system). Cells within the cerebellum, which is the part of the brain that coordinates movement, are particularly sensitive to changes in ataxin-1 shape and function. Over time, the loss of the cells of the cerebellum causes the movement problems characteristic of SCA1.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Metachondromatosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Metachondromatosis? Metachondromatosis (MC) is characterized by the presence of both multiple enchondromas and osteochondromas. The features of the condition generally become apparent in the first decade of life. Enchondromas are benign (noncancerous) tumors that appear on the inside of the bone. Those that are associated MC typically involve the iliac crests (part of the pelvis) and metaphyses of long bones, particularly the proximal femur (portion of the thigh bone closer to the trunk). These tumors are usually painless, but when they appear in the hands or feet, or in multiple lesions (as is typical in MC), they can deform the bone. Osteochondromas are also benign tumors. These form on the surface of the bone near the growth plates (areas of developing cartilage tissue near the ends of long bones in children) and are made up of both bone and cartilage. Osteochondromas may grow as the affected child grows, and stop growing when the child reaches skeletal maturity. They have a tendency to regress or disappear after the first or second decade of life. Those that are associated with MC most frequently occur in the small bones of the hands and feet, predominantly in digits and toes. The characteristic location and orientation of these in individuals with MC (as well as lack of bone shortening and short stature) are what generally differentiate MC from hereditary multiple osteochondromas (HMO), a disorder with overlapping features. The osteochondromas of MC point toward the joint to which they are adjacent (whereas those of HMO point away). Osteochondromas often cause painless bumps, but pain or other discomfort may occur if the tumors put pressure on soft tissues, nerves, or blood vessels. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Metachondromatosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Aseptic necrosis 90% Bone pain 90% Chondrocalcinosis 90% Cranial nerve paralysis 90% Exostoses 90% Multiple enchondromatosis 90% Abnormal joint morphology - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bowing of the long bones - Multiple digital exostoses - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by myasthenia gravis ?
Answer: Myasthenia gravis affects about 20 per 100,000 people worldwide. The prevalence has been increasing in recent decades, which likely results from earlier diagnosis and better treatments leading to longer lifespans for affected individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is LAMA2-related muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Craniosynostosis ?
Answer: The prognosis for craniosynostosis varies depending on whether single or multiple cranial sutures are involved or other abnormalities are present. The prognosis is better for those with single suture involvement and no associated abnormalities.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Penile Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Penile cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the penis.    - Human papillomavirus infection may increase the risk of developing penile cancer.    - Signs of penile cancer include sores, discharge, and bleeding.    - Tests that examine the penis are used to detect (find) and diagnose penile cancer.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Penile cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the penis.
                    The penis is a rod-shaped male reproductive organ that passes sperm and urine from the body. It contains two types of erectile tissue (spongy tissue with blood vessels that fill with blood to make an erection):          - Corpora cavernosa: The two columns of erectile tissue that form most of the penis.    -  Corpus spongiosum: The single column of erectile tissue that forms a small portion of the penis. The corpus spongiosum surrounds the urethra (the tube through which urine and sperm pass from the body).        The erectile tissue is wrapped in connective tissue and covered with skin. The glans (head of the penis) is covered with loose skin called the foreskin.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What causes Glycogen storage disease type 4 ?
Answer: What causes glycogen storage disease type 4? Glycogen storage disease type 4 (GSD 4) is caused by mutations in the GBE1 gene. The GBE1 gene normally provides instructions for making the glycogen branching enzyme. This enzyme is necessary for making glycogen, a major source of stored energy in the body. Glycogen is formed by assembling many molecules of glucose. The glycogen branching enzyme is involved in the formation of "branches" of glucose chains, which help to make glycogen more compact for storage and allows it to break down more easily when it is needed for energy. The GBE1 gene mutations that cause GSD 4 lead to a decrease in the amount or functionality of the glycogen branching enzyme. Glycogen is then not formed properly, and substances called polyglucosan bodies build up in cells throughout the body, causing the signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Sports Fitness
Answer: Summary : Sports can be a great way to get in shape or stay that way. Having a specific goal can be a great motivator. Physically, you need strength and endurance. Your training will vary with your sport. You would not train the same way for pole vaulting as for swimming. You might, however, cross train. Cross training simply means that you include a variety of fitness activities in your program. Research shows that cross training builds stronger bones.     Remember to listen to your body. If you frequently feel exhausted or you are in pain, you may be overdoing it. Injuries can be the result. And be sure that you use your body and your equipment safely. What you eat and drink is also important. Water is the most important nutrient for active people. Drink it before, during and after workouts.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What to do for What I need to know about Hepatitis C ?
Answer: - Hepatitis C is a virus, or infection, that causes inflammation of the liver.  - Anyone can get hepatitis C, but some people are more likely to than others.  - You could get hepatitis C through contact with an infected persons blood.  - Most people do not have any symptoms until the hepatitis C virus causes liver damage, which can take 10 or more years to happen.  - See a doctor right away if you or a child in your care has symptoms of hepatitis C.  - Acute hepatitis C is a short-term infection with the hepatitis C virus.  - Chronic hepatitis C is a long-lasting infection with the hepatitis C virus. Chronic hepatitis C occurs when the body cant get rid of the hepatitis C virus.  - A blood test will show if you have hepatitis C.  - If you are at higher risk of getting hepatitis C, get tested. Many people with hepatitis C do not know they are infected.  - Hepatitis C usually is not treated unless it becomes chronic. Chronic hepatitis C is treated with medicines that slow or stop the virus from damaging the liver.  - Tell your doctor and your dentist if you have hepatitis C.  - See your doctor right away if you think you have been in contact with the hepatitis C virus. Early diagnosis and treatment of chronic hepatitis C can help prevent liver damage.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Transposition of the great arteries ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Transposition of the great arteries? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Transposition of the great arteries. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Transposition of the great arteries - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) desmoid tumor ?
Answer: A desmoid tumor is an abnormal growth that arises from connective tissue, which is the tissue that provides strength and flexibility to structures such as bones, ligaments, and muscles. Typically, a single tumor develops, although some people have multiple tumors. The tumors can occur anywhere in the body. Tumors that form in the abdominal wall are called abdominal desmoid tumors; those that arise from the tissue that connects the abdominal organs are called intra-abdominal desmoid tumors; and tumors found in other regions of the body are called extra-abdominal desmoid tumors. Extra-abdominal tumors occur most often in the shoulders, upper arms, and upper legs.  Desmoid tumors are fibrous, much like scar tissue. They are generally not considered cancerous (malignant) because they do not spread to other parts of the body (metastasize); however, they can aggressively invade the surrounding tissue and can be very difficult to remove surgically. These tumors often recur, even after apparently complete removal.  The most common symptom of desmoid tumors is pain. Other signs and symptoms, which are often caused by growth of the tumor into surrounding tissue, vary based on the size and location of the tumor. Intra-abdominal desmoid tumors can block the bowel, causing constipation. Extra-abdominal desmoid tumors can restrict the movement of affected joints and cause limping or difficulty moving the arms or legs.  Desmoid tumors occur frequently in people with an inherited form of colon cancer called familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). These individuals typically develop intra-abdominal desmoid tumors in addition to abnormal growths (called polyps) and cancerous tumors in the colon. Desmoid tumors that are not part of an inherited condition are described as sporadic.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Afibrinogenemia ?
Answer: Afibrinogenemia, sometimes called congenital afibrinogenemia, is an inherited blood disorder in which the blood does not clot normally. It occurs when there is a lack (deficiency) of a protein called fibrinogen (or factor I), which is needed for the blood to clot. Affected individuals may be susceptible to severe bleeding (hemorrhaging) episodes, particularly during infancy and childhood. Afibrinogenemia is thought to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for porphyria ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of porphyria:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Acute Intermittent Porphyria  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Congenital Erythropoietic Porphyria  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Erythropoietic Protoporphyria, Autosomal Recessive  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Coproporphyria  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Porphyria Cutanea Tarda, Type II  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Variegate Porphyria  - Gene Review: Gene Review: X-Linked Protoporphyria  - Genetic Testing Registry: Acute intermittent porphyria  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital erythropoietic porphyria  - Genetic Testing Registry: Erythropoietic protoporphyria  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial porphyria cutanea tarda  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary coproporphyria  - Genetic Testing Registry: Porphyria  - Genetic Testing Registry: Protoporphyria, erythropoietic, X-linked  - Genetic Testing Registry: Variegate porphyria  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Porphyria  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Porphyria cutanea tarda on the hands  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Porphyrins - Blood  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Porphyrins - Urine   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Neurofibromatosis type 1 ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for neurofibromatosis type 1? Although it is usually not necessary for diagnosis, genetic testing is available for NF1, the gene known to cause neurofibromatosis type 1. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal testing are possible if the disease-causing mutation in the family is known. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) is a centralized online resource for information about genetic tests. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional. How is neurofibromatosis type 1 diagnosed? The diagnosis of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is usually based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. Specifically, doctors look for two or more of the following features to make a diagnosis of NF1: Six or more cafe-au-lait spots (measuring more than 5 mm across in children and more than 15 mm across in adolescents and adults) Two or more neurofibromas of any type or one plexiform neurofibroma (a neurofibroma that involves many nerves) Freckling in the underarm and/or groin Optic glioma Two or more Lisch nodules (clumps of pigment in the colored part of the eye that do not interfere with vision) Bone abnormalities including sphenoid dysplasia (absence of bone surrounding the eye) or tibial pseudarthrosis (incomplete healing of a fracture) A parent, sibling, or child who has been diagnosed with NF1 Because many of the features associated with NF1 develop with age, it can sometimes take several years to make a diagnosis in children without a family history of the condition. Genetic testing for changes (mutations) in the NF1 gene is available, but it is often not necessary. Prenatal testing and preimplantation genetic diagnosis is only an option if the disease-causing mutation in the family is known.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Gluten Sensitivity ?
Answer: Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. It is found mainly in foods but may also be in other products like medicines, vitamins, and supplements. People with gluten sensitivity have problems with gluten. It is different from celiac disease, an immune disease in which people can't eat gluten because it will damage their small intestine.    Some of the symptoms of gluten sensitivity are similar to celiac disease. They include tiredness and stomachaches. It can cause other symptoms too, including muscle cramps and leg numbness. But it does not damage the small intestine like celiac disease.    Researchers are still learning more about gluten sensitivity. If your health care provider thinks you have it, he or she may suggest that you stop eating gluten to see if your symptoms go away. However, you should first be tested to rule out celiac disease.    Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for fragile XE syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of fragile XE syndrome:  - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Developmental Screening Fact Sheet  - Genetic Testing Registry: FRAXE   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Geographic tongue ?
Answer: What causes geographic tongue? Is it genetic? The exact cause of geographic tongue has not been identified. However, because the condition may be present in several members of the same family, genetics may increase a person's chances of developing the condition. A study by Guimares (2007) showed that a specific variant of a gene called IL-1B (interleukin-1 beta) is associated with an increased risk of developing geographic tongue and suggests a genetic basis for the development of the disease. Further research may result in a better understanding of the genetic influences involved in the development of geographic tongue.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Familial ventricular tachycardia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Familial ventricular tachycardia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial ventricular tachycardia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Paroxysmal ventricular tachycardia - Sudden cardiac death - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Phaeohyphomycosis ?
Answer: Phaeohyphomycosis refers to fungal infections caused by dematiaceous (darkly, pigmented fungi). It can be associated with a variety of clinical syndromes including invasive sinusitis; nodules or abscesses beneath the skin; keratitis; lung masses; osteomyelitis; mycotic arthritis; endocarditis; brain abscess; and wide-spread infection. Although the condition can affect all people, it is most commonly diagnosed in immunocompetent and immunosuppressed people and can even be life-threatening in these populations. Treatment depends on the signs and symptoms present in each person but may include surgery and/or various medications.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome? The symptoms of Wernicke encephalopathy include mental confusion, vision problems (including double vision, abnormal eye movements, and eyelid drooping), inability to think clearly, coma, hypothermia, hypotension, and loss of muscle coordination (ataxia). The symptoms of Korsakoff's amnesia include loss of memory, inability to form new memories, making of stories (confabulation), seeing or hearing things that are not really there (hallucinations), disorientation, and vision impairment. The main features of Korsakoff's amnesic syndrome are impairments in acquiring new information or establishing new memories, and in retrieving previous memories. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Coma - Confusion - Horizontal nystagmus - Memory impairment - Ophthalmoplegia - Polyneuropathy - Psychosis - Ptosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to prevent Mitral Valve Prolapse ?
Answer: You can't prevent mitral valve prolapse (MVP). Most people who have the condition are born with it.
                
Complications from MVP, such as arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats) and infective endocarditis (IE), are rare. IE is an infection of the inner lining of your heart chambers and valves.
                
People at high risk for IE may be given antibiotics before some types of surgery and dental work. Antibiotics can help prevent IE. Your doctor will tell you whether you need this type of treatment.
                
People at high risk for IE may include those who've had valve repair or replacement or who have some types of underlying heart disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Foot Drop ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to the neurological conditions that cause foot drop in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the kinds of neurological disorders that cause foot drop.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Greenberg dysplasia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Greenberg dysplasia:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Greenberg dysplasia  - Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago: Fetal Skeletal Dysplasia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) glycogen storage disease type V ?
Answer: Glycogen storage disease type V (also known as GSDV or McArdle disease) is an inherited disorder caused by an inability to break down a complex sugar called glycogen in muscle cells. A lack of glycogen breakdown interferes with the function of muscle cells.  People with GSDV typically experience fatigue, muscle pain, and cramps during the first few minutes of exercise (exercise intolerance). Exercise such as weight lifting or jogging usually triggers these symptoms in affected individuals. The discomfort is generally alleviated with rest. If individuals rest after brief exercise and wait for their pain to go away, they can usually resume exercising with little or no discomfort (a characteristic phenomenon known as "second wind").  Prolonged or intense exercise can cause muscle damage in people with GSDV. About half of people with GSDV experience breakdown of muscle tissue (rhabdomyolysis). In severe episodes, the destruction of muscle tissue releases a protein called myoglobin, which is filtered through the kidneys and released in the urine (myoglobinuria). Myoglobin causes the urine to be red or brown. This protein can also damage the kidneys, and it is estimated that half of those individuals with GSDV who have myoglobinuria will develop life-threatening kidney failure.  The signs and symptoms of GSDV can vary significantly in affected individuals. The features of this condition typically begin in a person's teens or twenties, but they can appear anytime from infancy to adulthood. In most people with GSDV, the muscle weakness worsens over time; however, in about one-third of affected individuals, the muscle weakness is stable. Some people with GSDV experience mild symptoms such as poor stamina; others do not experience any symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Wrist Injuries and Disorders ?
Answer: Your wrist is made up of eight small bones known as carpals. They support a tube that runs through your wrist. That tube, called the carpal tunnel, has tendons and a nerve inside. It is covered by a ligament, which holds it in place.     Wrist pain is common. Repetitive motion can damage your wrist. Everyday activities like typing, racquet sports or sewing can cause pain, or even carpal tunnel syndrome. Wrist pain with bruising and swelling can be a sign of injury. The signs of a possible fracture include misshapen joints and inability to move your wrist. Some wrist fractures are a result of osteoporosis.    Other common causes of pain are        - Sprains and strains    - Tendinitis    - Arthritis    - Gout and pseudogout
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome ?
Answer: How might mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome be treated? References John M Shoffner. Mitochondrial Neurogastrointestinal Encephalopathy Disease. GeneReviews. May 11, 2010; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1179/. Accessed 3/27/2011.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by frontometaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: Frontometaphyseal dysplasia is a rare disorder; only a few dozen cases have been reported worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Whiplash ?
Answer: Treatment for individuals with whiplash may include pain medications, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antidepressants, muscle relaxants, and a cervical collar (usually worn for 2 to 3 weeks). Range of motion exercises, physical therapy, and cervical traction may also be prescribed. Supplemental heat application may relieve muscle tension.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency ?
Answer: Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency is an inherited disorder that primarily affects the brain and muscles. Without early treatment, people with this disorder have neurological problems that are usually severe. These problems include intellectual disability, speech development limited to a few words, and recurrent seizures (epilepsy). Affected individuals may also exhibit autistic behaviors that affect communication and social interaction or self-injurious behaviors such as head-banging. Other features of this disorder can include involuntary movements (extrapyramidal dysfunction) such as tremors or facial tics.  People with guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency may have weak muscle tone and delayed development of motor skills such as sitting or walking. In severe cases they may lose previously acquired skills such as the ability to support their head or to sit unsupported.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Colorectal Cancer ?
Answer: Treatments are available for all patients who have colon cancer. The choice of treatment depends on the size, location, and stage of the cancer and on the patient's general health. Doctors may suggest several treatments or combinations of treatments. Surgery Is the Most Common First Step in a Treatment Regimen The three standard treatments for colon cancer are surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. Surgery, however, is the most common first step in the treatment for all stages of colon cancer. Surgery is an operation to remove the cancer. A doctor may remove the cancer using several types of surgery. Local Excision If the cancer is found at a very early stage, the doctor may remove it without cutting through the abdominal wall. Instead, the doctor may put a tube up the rectum into the colon and cut the cancer out. This is called a local excision. If the cancer is found in a polyp, which is a small bulging piece of tissue, the operation is called a polypectomy. Colectomy If the cancer is larger, the surgeon will remove the cancer and a small amount of healthy tissue around it. This is called a colectomy. The surgeon may then sew the healthy parts of the colon together. Usually, the surgeon will also remove lymph nodes near the colon and examine them under a microscope to see whether they contain cancer. Colostomy If the doctor is not able to sew the two ends of the colon back together, an opening called a stoma is made on the abdomen for waste to pass out of the body before it reaches the rectum. This procedure is called a colostomy. Sometimes the colostomy is needed only until the lower colon has healed, and then it can be reversed. But if the doctor needs to remove the entire lower colon or rectum, the colostomy may be permanent. Adjuvant Chemotherapy Even if the doctor removes all of the cancer that can be seen at the time of the operation, many patients receive chemotherapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Chemotherapy treatment after surgery -- to increase the chances of a cure -- is called adjuvant therapy. Researchers have found that patients who received adjuvant therapy usually survived longer and went for longer periods of time without a recurrence of colon cancer than patients treated with surgery alone. Patients age 70 and older benefited from adjuvant treatment as much as their younger counterparts. In fact, adjuvant therapy is equally as effective -- and no more toxic -- for patients 70 and older as it is for younger patients, provided the older patients have no other serious diseases. Adjuvant chemotherapy is standard treatment for patients whose cancer is operable and who are at high risk for a recurrence of the disease. Most cases of colon cancer occur in individuals age 65 and over. But studies have shown that older patients receive adjuvant chemotherapy less frequently than younger patients. Chemotherapy Chemotherapy is the use of anti-cancer drugs to kill cancer cells. Chemotherapy may be taken by mouth, or it may be put into the body by inserting a needle into a vein or muscle. One form of chemotherapy is called systemic treatment because the drugs enter the bloodstream, travel through the body, and can kill cancer cells throughout the body. The other form of chemotherapy is called targeted therapy because the drug affects only the factors that are causing the cancer and does not perturb the rest of the body. Radiation Therapy Radiation therapy is the use of x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Most often, doctors use it for patients whose cancer is in the rectum. Doctors may use radiation before surgery to shrink a tumor in the rectum and make it easier to remove. Or, they may use it after surgery to destroy any cancer cells that remain in the treated area. The radiation may come from a machine or from implants placed directly into or near the tumor. Radiation that comes from a machine is called external radiation. Radiation that uses implants is known as internal radiation. Some patients have both kinds of therapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on TSEs, including GSS. Much of this research is aimed at characterizing the agents that cause these disorders, clarifying the mechanisms underlying them, and, ultimately, finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Crigler Najjar syndrome, type 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Crigler Najjar syndrome, type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Crigler Najjar syndrome, type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the liver 90% Hearing impairment 7.5% Memory impairment 7.5% Ophthalmoparesis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Encephalopathy - Jaundice - Kernicterus - Unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) incontinentia pigmenti ?
Answer: Incontinentia pigmenti is a condition that can affect many body systems, particularly the skin. This condition occurs much more often in females than in males.  Incontinentia pigmenti is characterized by skin abnormalities that evolve throughout childhood and young adulthood. Many affected infants have a blistering rash at birth and in early infancy, which heals and is followed by the development of wart-like skin growths. In early childhood, the skin develops grey or brown patches (hyperpigmentation) that occur in a swirled pattern. These patches fade with time, and adults with incontinentia pigmenti usually have lines of unusually light-colored skin (hypopigmentation) on their arms and legs.  Other signs and symptoms of incontinentia pigmenti can include hair loss (alopecia) affecting the scalp and other parts of the body, dental abnormalities (such as small teeth or few teeth), eye abnormalities that can lead to vision loss, and lined or pitted fingernails and toenails. Most people with incontinentia pigmenti have normal intelligence; however, this condition may affect the brain. Associated problems can include delayed development or intellectual disability, seizures, and other neurological problems.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 deficiency ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Elevated hepatic transaminases 90% Hepatomegaly 90% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 90% Muscle weakness 90% Myalgia 90% Myopathy 90% Seizures 90% Cerebral calcification 50% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 50% Renal insufficiency 50% Encephalitis 7.5% Hypoglycemia 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for septo-optic dysplasia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of septo-optic dysplasia:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Septo-optic dysplasia sequence  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Growth Hormone Deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hypopituitarism   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Microcystic adnexal carcinoma ?
Answer: What are the symptoms of microcystic adnexal carcinoma? Microcystic adnexal carcinoma appears as a smooth bump or patch that is slightly raised from the surrounding skin.  It may be flesh-colored or yellowish, and it increases in size over time.  A microcystic adnexal carcinoma may grow into nerves nearby, which can cause discomfort, numbness, tingling (paresthesia), burning, or itching.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is the outlook for Huntington's Disease ?
Answer: Huntingtons disease causes disability that gets worse over time. People with this disease usually die within 15 to 20 years following diagnosis. At this time, no treatment is available to slow, stop or reverse the course of HD.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by Denys-Drash syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Denys-Drash syndrome is unknown; at least 150 affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Joint Disorders ?
Answer: A joint is where two or more bones come together, like the knee, hip, elbow, or shoulder. Joints can be damaged by many types of injuries or diseases, including       - Arthritis - inflammation of a joint. It causes pain, stiffness, and swelling. Over time, the joint can become severely damaged.    - Bursitis - inflammation of a fluid-filled sac that cushions the joint    - Dislocations - injuries that force the ends of the bones out of position       Treatment of joint problems depends on the cause. If you have a sports injury, treatment often begins with the RICE (Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation) method to relieve pain, reduce swelling, and speed healing. Other possible treatments include pain relievers, keeping the injured area from moving, rehabilitation, and sometimes surgery. For arthritis, injuries, or other diseases, you may need joint replacement surgery to remove the damaged joint and put in a new one.    NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Robinow syndrome ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive Robinow syndrome results from mutations in the ROR2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein whose function is not well understood, although it is involved in chemical signaling pathways that are essential for normal development before birth. In particular, the ROR2 protein appears to play a critical role in the formation of the skeleton, heart, and genitals. Mutations in the ROR2 gene prevent cells from making any functional ROR2 protein, which disrupts development starting before birth and leads to the characteristic features of Robinow syndrome.  Autosomal dominant Robinow syndrome can be caused by mutations in the WNT5A or DVL1 gene, with the osteosclerotic form of the condition resulting from DVL1 gene mutations. The proteins produced from these genes appear to be part of the same chemical signaling pathways as the ROR2 protein. Mutations in either of these genes alter the production or function of their respective proteins, which impairs chemical signaling that is important for early development.  Some people with the characteristic signs and symptoms of Robinow syndrome do not have an identified mutation in the ROR2, WNT5A, or DVL1 gene. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Plasmablastic lymphoma ?
Answer: Plasmablastic lymphoma is an aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Although the condition most commonly occurs in the oral cavity, it can be diagnosed in many other parts of the body such as the gastrointestinal tract, lymph nodes, and skin. The exact underlying cause of plasmablastic lymphoma is poorly understood; however, it is often associated with suppression of the immune system (i.e. HIV infection, immunosuppressive therapy). There is currently no standard therapy for plasmablastic lymphoma. Treatment usually consists of chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Renal tubular dysgenesis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Renal tubular dysgenesis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Renal tubular dysgenesis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the renal tubule 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 90% Hypertelorism 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Polycystic kidney dysplasia 90% Polyhydramnios 90% Premature birth 90% Microcephaly 7.5% Nephropathy 7.5% Oligohydramnios 7.5% Single transverse palmar crease 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Anuria - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hypotension - Potter facies - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Renotubular dysgenesis - Respiratory insufficiency - Widely patent fontanelles and sutures - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Anterior polar cataract 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Anterior polar cataract 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Anterior polar cataract 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anterior polar cataract - Autosomal dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Drugs and Young People
Answer: Summary : Drug abuse is a serious public health problem. It affects almost every community and family in some way. Drug abuse in children and teenagers may pose a greater hazard than in older people. This is because their brains are not yet fully developed. As a result, the brains of young people may be more susceptible to drug abuse and addiction than adult brains.    Abused drugs include       - Amphetamines     - Anabolic steroids     - Club drugs    - Cocaine     - Heroin     - Inhalants    - Marijuana    - Prescription drugs       There are different types of treatment for drug abuse. But it is better to prevent drug abuse in the first place.    NIH: National Institute on Drug Abuse
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How many people are affected by Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome ?
Answer: Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome is very rare; only a few families with the disorder have been reported worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation syndrome ?
Answer: CM-AVM is thought to occur in at least 1 in 100,000 people of northern European origin. The prevalence of the condition in other populations is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Spondylothoracic dysostosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of spondylothoracic dysostosis? Signs and symptoms of spondylothoracic dysostosis, include spine and vertebral abnormalities which result in a shortened spine, neck, and trunk, as well as rib anomalies including fused ribs which in combination with the spine anomalies result in a "crab-like" appearance to the rib cage. The shortened spine and rib cage anomalies can cause serious breathing problems and recurring lung infections. These complications result in a 32% death rate in early childhood. Other complications of spondylothoracic dysostosis, include shortened stature (due to the spine and vertebral defects) and limited neck motion. Symptom and symptom severity may vary from patient to patient, however symptoms tend to be the worse for children who carry two "E230X" mutations in the MESP2 gene. Most patients with spondylothoracic dysostosis have normal intelligence and neurological problems are infrequent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Lymphedema ?
Answer: Lymphedema is the name of a type of swelling. It happens when lymph builds up in your body's soft tissues. Lymph is a fluid that contains white blood cells that defend against germs. It can build up when the lymph system is damaged or blocked. It usually happens in the arms or legs.    Causes of lymphedema include       - Infection    - Cancer    - Scar tissue from radiation therapy or surgical removal of lymph nodes    - Inherited conditions in which lymph nodes or vessels are absent or abnormal       Treatment can help control symptoms. It includes exercise, compression devices, skin care, and massage.    NIH: National Cancer Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How to diagnose Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis ?
Answer: Your doctor will diagnose thrombocythemia or thrombocytosis based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results. A hematologist also may be involved in your care. This is a doctor who specializes in blood diseases and conditions.
                
Medical History
                
Your doctor may ask you about factors that can affect your platelets, such as:
                
Any medical procedures or blood transfusions you've had
                
Any recent infections or vaccines you've had
                
The medicines you take, including over-the-counter medicines
                
Your general eating habits, including the amount of alcohol you normally drink
                
Any family history of high platelet counts
                
Physical Exam
                
Your doctor will do a physical exam to look for signs and symptoms of blood clots and bleeding. He or she also will check for signs of conditions that can cause secondary thrombocytosis, such as an infection.
                
Primary thrombocythemia is diagnosed only after all possible causes of a high platelet count are ruled out. For example, your doctor may recommend tests to check for early, undiagnosed cancer. If another disease, condition, or factor is causing a high platelet count, the diagnosis is secondary thrombocytosis.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
Your doctor may recommend one or more of the following tests to help diagnose a high platelet count.
                
Complete Blood Count
                
A complete blood count (CBC) measures the levels of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets in your blood. For this test, a small amount of blood is drawn from a blood vessel, usually in your arm.
                
If you have thrombocythemia or thrombocytosis, the CBC results will show that your platelet count is high.
                
Blood Smear
                
A blood smear is used to check the condition of your platelets. For this test, a small amount of blood is drawn from a blood vessel, usually in your arm. Some of your blood is put on a glass slide. A microscope is then used to look at your platelets.
                
Bone Marrow Tests
                
Bone marrow tests check whether your bone marrow is healthy. Blood cells, including platelets, are made in the bone marrow. The two bone marrow tests are aspiration (as-pih-RA-shun) and biopsy.
                
Bone marrow aspiration might be done to find out whether your bone marrow is making too many platelets. For this test, your doctor removes a sample of fluid bone marrow through a needle. He or she examines the sample under a microscope to check for faulty cells.
                
A bone marrow biopsy often is done right after an aspiration. For this test, your doctor removes a small amount of bone marrow tissue through a needle. He or she examines the tissue to check the number and types of cells in the bone marrow.
                
With thrombocythemia and thrombocytosis, the bone marrow has a higher than normal number of the very large cells that make platelets.
                
Other Tests
                
Your doctor may recommend other blood tests to look for genetic factors that can cause a high platelet count.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Thompson Baraitser syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Thompson Baraitser syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Thompson Baraitser syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Amniotic constriction ring 90% Finger syndactyly 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Pectus excavatum 90% Scoliosis 90% Symphalangism affecting the phalanges of the hand 90% Webbed neck 90% Abnormality of the foot 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the abdominal wall musculature 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Epicanthus 50% Facial asymmetry 50% Hypertelorism 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Long face 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Microcephaly 50% Pointed chin 50% Popliteal pterygium 50% Ptosis 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Short stature 50% Telecanthus 50% Umbilical hernia 50% Vertebral segmentation defect 50% Abnormality of female external genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of the abdominal organs 7.5% Abnormality of the aortic valve 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Aortic dilatation 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Conductive hearing impairment 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Dolichocephaly 7.5% Gait disturbance 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Low posterior hairline 7.5% Scrotal hypoplasia 7.5% Skeletal muscle atrophy 7.5% Spina bifida occulta 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Abnormality of the neck - Absence of labia majora - Antecubital pterygium - Anterior clefting of vertebral bodies - Arachnodactyly - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Axillary pterygia - Bilateral camptodactyly - Camptodactyly of toe - Congenital diaphragmatic hernia - Decreased fetal movement - Diaphragmatic eventration - Dislocated radial head - Downturned corners of mouth - Dysplastic patella - Exostosis of the external auditory canal - Fused cervical vertebrae - High palate - Hip dislocation - Hypoplastic nipples - Hypospadias - Inguinal hernia - Intercrural pterygium - Kyphosis - Long clavicles - Low-set ears - Narrow mouth - Neck pterygia - Neonatal respiratory distress - Patellar aplasia - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Rib fusion - Rocker bottom foot - Syndactyly - Talipes calcaneovalgus - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) BOD syndrome ?
Answer: BOD syndrome is a genetic condition characterized by underdeveloped pinky toenails or fingernails, normal intellect to mild intellectual disability, distinct facial features, and short stature. The cause of the condition is not known. BOD syndrome is thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, however in many cases the condition occurs for the first time in a family due to a new mutation. Signs and symptoms of BOD syndrome are similar to, albeit milder than that of, Coffin-Siris syndrome. The relationship between these syndromes is presently unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to prevent Parasites - Fascioliasis (Fasciola Infection) ?
Answer: No vaccine is available to protect people against Fasciola infection.
    
In some areas of the world where fascioliasis is found (endemic), special control programs are in place or are planned. The types of control measures depend on the setting (such as epidemiologic, ecologic, and cultural factors). Strict control of the growth and sale of watercress and other edible water plants is important.
    
Individual people can protect themselves by not eating raw watercress and other water plants, especially from endemic grazing areas. As always, travelers to areas with poor sanitation should avoid food and water that might be contaminated (tainted). Vegetables grown in fields that might have been irrigated with polluted water should be thoroughly cooked, as should viscera from potentially infected animals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: Who is at risk for Hendra Virus Disease (HeV)? ?
Answer: Australias Flying fox bats (genus Pteropus) are the natural reservoir of Hendra virus. Serologic evidence for HeV infection have been found in all fours species of Australian flying foxes, but spillover of the virus in horses is limited to coastal and forested regions in Australia (Queensland and New South Wales states)  (see Henipavirus Distribution Map). 
                
People at highest risk are those living within the distribution of the flying foxes and with occupational or recreational exposure to horses that have had potential contact with flying foxes in Australia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the treatments for Tarsal tunnel syndrome ?
Answer: What treatment is available for tarsal tunnel syndrome? While we do not provide medical advice, the following have been reported as treatment options for tarsal tunnel syndrome. Individuals should discuss the various treatment options with their personal healthcare provider. Rest and ice Oral pain medications Steroid injections Local anesthetics Physical therapy Immobilization Orthotic devices Decompression surgery
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Relapsing polychondritis inherited ?
Answer: Is relapsing polychondritis inherited? Relapsing polychondritis (RP) is not passed through families in a clear-cut fashion. Most people with relapsing polychondritis do not have affected relatives. Like many other autoimmune conditions, RP is likely a multifactorial condition which is associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. In general, having a first degree relative (for example a parent, child, or sibling) with an autoimmune condition may increase your personal risk for developing an autoimmune condition. Unfortunately, no specific risk estimates are available for relapsing polychondritis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for autoimmune Addison disease ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of autoimmune Addison disease:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Addison's disease  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Addison's Disease   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Netherton syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Netherton syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Netherton syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by paroxysmal extreme pain disorder ?
Answer: Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder is a rare condition; approximately 80 affected individuals have been described in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Ewing's family of tumors ?
Answer: What causes Askins tumor? In 80% to 90% of Askins tumors, a part of chromosome 11 and chromosome 22 are translocated. 'Translocation' means that the chromosomes have exchanged material. This exchange of material interrupts the cell's ability to grow and divide normally. In general, cancers are caused when the genes that regulate the cell's growth and division are changed. The cause of the changes is unknown, but may be due to a combination of genetic factors, environmental factors, and the process of aging. The development of cancer is not a quick or simple process. It is a progression involving a build-up of changes in a number of different genes in the cells of the body tissues over time.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is early-onset glaucoma inherited ?
Answer: Early-onset glaucoma can have different inheritance patterns. Primary congenital glaucoma is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Juvenile open-angle glaucoma is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some families, primary congenital glaucoma may also be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Celiac Disease ?
Answer: Celiac disease is an immune disorder in which people cannot tolerate gluten because it damages the inner lining of their small intestine and prevents it from absorbing nutrients. The small intestine is the tubeshaped organ between the stomach and large intestine. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley and occasionally in some products such as vitamin and nutrient supplements, lip balms, and certain medications.
                
The immune system is the body's natural defense system and normally protects the body from infection. However, when a person has celiac disease, gluten causes the immune system to react in a way that can cause intestinal inflammationirritation or swellingand long-lasting damage.
                
When people with celiac disease eat foods or use products containing gluten, their immune system responds by damaging or destroying villithe tiny, fingerlike projections on the inner lining of the small intestine. Villi normally absorb nutrients from food and pass the nutrients through the walls of the small intestine and into the bloodstream. Without healthy villi, people can become malnourished, no matter how much food they eat.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Paget disease of bone ?
Answer: Paget disease of bone is a disorder that causes bones to grow larger and weaker than normal. Affected bones may be misshapen and easily broken (fractured).  The classic form of Paget disease of bone typically appears in middle age or later. It usually occurs in one or a few bones and does not spread from one bone to another. Any bones can be affected, although the disease most commonly affects bones in the spine, pelvis, skull, or legs.  Many people with classic Paget disease of bone do not experience any symptoms associated with their bone abnormalities. The disease is often diagnosed unexpectedly by x-rays or laboratory tests done for other reasons. People who develop symptoms are most likely to experience pain. The affected bones may themselves be painful, or pain may be caused by arthritis in nearby joints. Arthritis results when the distortion of bones, particularly weight-bearing bones in the legs, causes extra wear and tear on the joints. Arthritis most frequently affects the knees and hips in people with this disease.  Other complications of Paget disease of bone depend on which bones are affected. If the disease occurs in bones of the skull, it can cause an enlarged head, hearing loss, headaches, and dizziness. If the disease affects bones in the spine, it can lead to numbness and tingling (due to pinched nerves) and abnormal spinal curvature. In the leg bones, the disease can cause bowed legs and difficulty walking.  A rare type of bone cancer called osteosarcoma has been associated with Paget disease of bone. This type of cancer probably occurs in less than 1 in 1,000 people with this disease.  Early-onset Paget disease of bone is a less common form of the disease that appears in a person's teens or twenties. Its features are similar to those of the classic form of the disease, although it is more likely to affect the skull, spine, and ribs (the axial skeleton) and the small bones of the hands. The early-onset form of the disorder is also associated with hearing loss early in life.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: If tests show that you have cancer, you should talk with your doctor in order to make treatment decisions. Working With a Team of Specialists A team of specialists often treats people with cancer. The team will keep the primary doctor informed about the patient's progress. The team may include a medical oncologist who is a specialist in cancer treatment, a surgeon, a radiation oncologist who is a specialist in radiation therapy, and others. Before starting treatment, you may want another doctor to review the diagnosis and treatment plan. Some insurance companies require a second opinion. Others may pay for a second opinion if you request it. Clinical Trials for Prostate Cancer Some prostate cancer patients take part in studies of new treatments. These studies -- called clinical trials -- are designed to find out whether a new treatment is safe and effective. Often, clinical trials compare a new treatment with a standard one so that doctors can learn which is more effective. Men with prostate cancer who are interested in taking part in a clinical trial should talk with their doctor. The U.S. National Institutes of Health, through its National Library of Medicine and other Institutes, maintains a database of clinical trials at ClinicalTrials.gov. Click here to see a list of the current clinical trials on prostate cancer. A separate window will open. Click the "x" in the upper right hand corner of the "Clinical Trials" window to return here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?
Answer: Childhood nephrotic syndrome is not a disease in itself; rather, it is a group of symptoms that
                
- indicate kidney damageparticularly damage to the glomeruli, the tiny units within the kidney where blood is filtered  - result in the release of too much protein from the body into the urine
                
When the kidneys are damaged, the protein albumin, normally found in the blood, will leak into the urine. Proteins are large, complex molecules that perform a number of important functions in the body.
                
The two types of childhood nephrotic syndrome are
                
- primarythe most common type of childhood nephrotic syndrome, which begins in the kidneys and affects only the kidneys  - secondarythe syndrome is caused by other diseases
                
A health care provider may refer a child with nephrotic syndrome to a nephrologista doctor who specializes in treating kidney disease. A child should see a pediatric nephrologist, who has special training to take care of kidney problems in children, if possible. However, in many parts of the country, pediatric nephrologists are in short supply, so the child may need to travel. If traveling is not possible, some nephrologists who treat adults can also treat children.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by Niemann-Pick disease ?
Answer: Niemann-Pick disease types A and B is estimated to affect 1 in 250,000 individuals. Niemann-Pick disease type A occurs more frequently among individuals of Ashkenazi (eastern and central European) Jewish descent than in the general population. The incidence within the Ashkenazi population is approximately 1 in 40,000 individuals.  Combined, Niemann-Pick disease types C1 and C2 are estimated to affect 1 in 150,000 individuals; however, type C1 is by far the more common type, accounting for 95 percent of cases. The disease occurs more frequently in people of French-Acadian descent in Nova Scotia. In Nova Scotia, a population of affected French-Acadians were previously designated as having Niemann-Pick disease type D, however, it was shown that these individuals have mutations in the gene associated with Niemann-Pick disease type C1.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Limb Loss
Answer: Summary : People can lose all or part of an arm or leg for a number of reasons. Common ones include       - Problems with blood circulation. These may be the result of atherosclerosis or diabetes. Severe cases may result in amputation.    - Injuries, including from traffic accidents and military combat    - Cancer    - Birth defects       Some amputees have phantom pain, which is the feeling of pain in the missing limb. Other physical problems include surgical complications and skin problems, if you wear an artificial limb. Many amputees use an artificial limb. Learning how to use it takes time. Physical therapy can help you adapt.    Recovery from the loss of a limb can be hard. Sadness, anger, and frustration are common. If you are having a tough time, talk to your doctor. Treatment with medicine or counseling can help.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Felty's syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Felty's syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Felty's syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of neutrophils 90% Arthralgia 90% Arthritis 90% Autoimmunity 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Osteolysis 90% Abnormality of lymphocytes 50% Anemia 50% Lymphadenopathy 50% Otitis media 50% Recurrent pharyngitis 50% Sinusitis 50% Splenomegaly 50% Weight loss 50% Abnormality of the pericardium 7.5% Abnormality of the pleura 7.5% Bone marrow hypocellularity 7.5% Cellulitis 7.5% Generalized hyperpigmentation 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Inflammatory abnormality of the eye 7.5% Irregular hyperpigmentation 7.5% Lymphoma 7.5% Peripheral neuropathy 7.5% Pulmonary fibrosis 7.5% Recurrent urinary tract infections 7.5% Sepsis 7.5% Skin ulcer 7.5% Thrombocytopenia 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Neutropenia - Rheumatoid arthritis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Diabetes is a complex group of diseases with a variety of causes. People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia.
                
Diabetes is a disorder of metabolismthe way the body uses digested food for energy. The digestive tract breaks down carbohydratessugars and starches found in many foodsinto glucose, a form of sugar that enters the bloodstream. With the help of the hormone insulin, cells throughout the body absorb glucose and use it for energy. Diabetes develops when the body doesnt make enough insulin or is not able to use insulin effectively, or both.
                
Insulin is made in the pancreas, an organ located behind the stomach. The pancreas contains clusters of cells called islets. Beta cells within the islets make insulin and release it into the blood.
                
If beta cells dont produce enough insulin, or the body doesnt respond to the insulin that is present, glucose builds up in the blood instead of being absorbed by cells in the body, leading to prediabetes or diabetes. Prediabetes is a condition in which blood glucose levels or A1C levelswhich reflect average blood glucose levelsare higher than normal but not high enough to be diagnosed as diabetes. In diabetes, the bodys cells are starved of energy despite high blood glucose levels.
                
Over time, high blood glucose damages nerves and blood vessels, leading to complications such as heart disease, stroke, kidney disease, blindness, dental disease, and amputations. Other complications of diabetes may include increased susceptibility to other diseases, loss of mobility with aging, depression, and pregnancy problems. No one is certain what starts the processes that cause diabetes, but scientists believe genes and environmental factors interact to cause diabetes in most cases.
                
The two main types of diabetes are type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. A third type, gestational diabetes, develops only during pregnancy. Other types of diabetes are caused by defects in specific genes, diseases of the pancreas, certain drugs or chemicals, infections, and other conditions. Some people show signs of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of What I need to know about Kidney Stones ?
Answer: You may have a kidney stone if you
                
- have pain while urinating  - see blood in your urine  - feel a sharp pain in your back or lower abdomenthe area between your chest and hips
                
The pain may last for a short or long time. You may have nausea and vomiting with the pain.
                
If you have a small stone that passes on its own easily, you may not have symptoms at all.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How to diagnose Kidney Stones in Children ?
Answer: The process of diagnosing any illness begins with consideration of the symptoms. Pain or bloody urine may be the first symptom. Urine, blood, and imaging tests will help determine whether symptoms are caused by a stone. Urine tests can be used to check for infection and for substances that form stones. Blood tests can be used to check for biochemical problems that can lead to kidney stones. Various imaging techniques can be used to locate the stone:
                
- Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. An abdominal ultrasound can create images of the entire urinary tract. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaging; anesthesia is not needed. The images can show the location of any stones. This test does not expose children to radiation, unlike some other imaging tests. Although other tests are more useful in detecting very small stones or stones in the lower portion of the ureter, ultrasound is considered by many health care providers to be the best screening test to look for stones.  - Computerized tomography (CT) scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create threedimensional (3-D) images. A CT scan may include the injection of a special dye, called contrast medium. CT scans require the child to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist; anesthesia is not needed. CT scans may be required to get an accurate stone count when children are being considered for urologic surgery. Because CT scans expose children to a moderate amount of radiation, health care providers try to reduce radiation exposure in children by avoiding repeated CT scans, restricting the area scanned as much as possible, and using the lowest radiation dose that will provide the needed diagnostic information.  - X-ray machines use radiation to create images of the childs urinary tract. The images can be taken at an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist; anesthesia is not needed. The x rays are used to locate many kinds of stones. A conventional x ray is generally less informative than an ultrasound or CT scan, but it is less expensive and can be done more quickly than other imaging procedures.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Duane syndrome type 2 ?
Answer: Duane syndrome is a disorder of eye movement. This condition prevents outward movement of the eye (toward the ear), and in some cases may also limit inward eye movement (toward the nose). As the eye moves inward, the eyelids partially close and the eyeball pulls back (retracts) into its socket. Usually only one eye is affected. Some people with Duane syndrome develop amblyopia ("lazy eye"), a condition that causes vision loss in the affected eye. Most cases occur without other signs and symptoms. There are three forms of Duane syndrome, designated types 1, 2, and 3. The types vary in which eye movements are most severely restricted (inward, outward, or both). All three types are characterized by retraction of the eyeball as the eye moves inward and are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Nephrotic Syndrome in Adults ?
Answer: Nephrotic syndrome can be caused by diseases that affect only the kidneys, such as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) or membranous nephropathy. Diseases that affect only the kidneys are called primary causes of nephrotic syndrome. The glomeruli are usually the targets of these diseases for reasons that are not fully understood. In FSGSthe most common primary cause of nephrotic syndromescar tissue forms in parts of the glomeruli. In membranous nephropathy, immune molecules form harmful deposits on the glomeruli.
                
Nephrotic syndrome can also be caused by systemic diseases, which are diseases that affect many parts of the body, such as diabetes or lupus. Systemic diseases that affect the kidneys are called secondary causes of nephrotic syndrome. More than 50 percent of nephrotic syndrome cases in adults have secondary causes, with diabetes being the most common.1
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Frontometaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Frontometaphyseal dysplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Frontometaphyseal dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of dental morphology 90% Abnormality of frontal sinus 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Bowing of the long bones 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Craniofacial hyperostosis 90% Hypertelorism 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Prominent supraorbital ridges 90% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 50% Abnormality of the palate 50% Accelerated skeletal maturation 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 50% Arachnodactyly 50% Conductive hearing impairment 50% Elbow dislocation 50% Scoliosis 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 50% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Synostosis of carpal bones 50% Ulnar deviation of finger 50% Abnormality of the larynx 7.5% Abnormality of the urethra 7.5% Complete atrioventricular canal defect 7.5% Craniosynostosis 7.5% Tracheal stenosis 7.5% Ureteral stenosis 7.5% Ankle contracture - Antegonial notching of mandible - Anteriorly placed odontoid process - Broad phalanges of the hand - Coarse facial features - Coat hanger sign of ribs - Cor pulmonale - Coxa valga - Delayed eruption of teeth - Dental malocclusion - Elbow flexion contracture - Fused cervical vertebrae - Genu valgum - High palate - Hirsutism - Hydronephrosis - Hydroureter - Increased density of long bone diaphyses - Intellectual disability - Knee flexion contracture - Large foramen magnum - Long foot - Long phalanx of finger - Mitral valve prolapse - Partial fusion of carpals - Partial fusion of tarsals - Persistence of primary teeth - Pointed chin - Scapular winging - Selective tooth agenesis - Short chin - Stridor - Wide nasal bridge - Wrist flexion contracture - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Acid Lipase Disease ?
Answer: Acid lipase disease or deficiency occurs when the enzyme needed to break down certain fats that are normally digested by the body is lacking or missing, resulting in the toxic buildup of these fats in the bodys cells and tissues. These fatty substances, called lipids, include fatty acids, oils, and cholesterol. Two rare lipid storage diseases are caused by the deficiency of the enzyme lysosomal acid lipase:
                
Wolmans disease (also known as acid lipase deficiency) is an autosomal recessive disorder marked by the buildup of cholesteryl esters (normally a tranport form of cholesterol that brings nutrients into the cells and carries out waste) and triglycerides (a chemical form in which fats exist in the body). Infants with the disorder appear normal at birth but quickly develop progressive mental deterioration, low muscle tone,enlarged liver and grossly enlarged spleen, gastrointestinal problems including an excessive amount of fats in the stools, jaundice, anemia, vomiting, and calcium deposits in the adrenal glands, which causes them to harden. Both male and female infants are affected by the disorder.
                
Cholesteryl ester storage disease (CESD) is an extremely rare disorder that results from storage of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides in cells in the blood and lymph and lymphoid tissue. Children develop an enlarged liver, leading to cirrhosis and chronic liver failure before adulthood. Children may also develop calcium deposits in the adrenal glands and jaundice. Onset varies, and the disorder may not be diagnosed until adulthood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Pernicious Anemia ?
Answer: Pernicious anemia (per-NISH-us uh-NEE-me-uh) is a condition in which the body can't make enough healthy red blood cells because it doesn't have enough vitamin B12.
                
Vitamin B12 is a nutrient found in some foods. The body needs this nutrient to make healthy red blood cells and to keep its nervous system working properly.
                
People who have pernicious anemia can't absorb enough vitamin B12 from food. This is because they lack intrinsic (in-TRIN-sik) factor, a protein made in the stomach. A lack of this protein leads to vitamin B12 deficiency.
                
Other conditions and factors also can cause vitamin B12 deficiency. Examples include infections, surgery, medicines, and diet. Technically, the term "pernicious anemia" refers to vitamin B12 deficiency due to a lack of intrinsic factor. Often though, vitamin B12 deficiency due to other causes also is called pernicious anemia.
                
This article discusses pernicious anemia due to a lack of intrinsic factor and other causes.
                
Overview
                
Pernicious anemia is a type of anemia. The term "anemia" usually refers to a condition in which the blood has a lower than normal number of red blood cells. In pernicious anemia, the body can't make enough healthy red blood cells because it doesn't have enough vitamin B12.
                
Without enough vitamin B12, your red blood cells don't divide normally and are too large. They may have trouble getting out of the bone marrowa sponge-like tissue inside the bones where blood cells are made.
                
Without enough red blood cells to carry oxygen to your body, you may feel tired and weak. Severe or long-lasting pernicious anemia can damage the heart, brain, and other organs in the body.
                
Pernicious anemia also can cause other problems, such as nerve damage, neurological problems (such as memory loss), and digestive tract problems. People who have pernicious anemia also may be at higher risk for weakened bone strength and stomach cancer.
                
Outlook
                
The term pernicious means deadly. The condition is called pernicious anemia because it often was fatal in the past, before vitamin B12 treatments were available. Now, pernicious anemia usually is easy to treat with vitamin B12 pills or shots.
                
With ongoing care and proper treatment, most people who have pernicious anemia can recover, feel well, and live normal lives.
                
Without treatment, pernicious anemia can lead to serious problems with the heart, nerves, and other parts of the body. Some of these problems may be permanent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Factor XI deficiency ?
Answer: Factor XI deficiency is a bleeding disorder that interferes with the body's clotting process. As a result, people affected by this condition may have difficulty stopping the flow of blood following dental extractions, trauma or surgery. Women with factor XI deficiency may also experience heavy menstrual periods or heavy postpartum bleeding. Within affected people and their families, highly variable bleeding patterns occur, and bleeding risk can not be predicted by the level of factor XI (a clotting factor) in the blood. Although the condition can affect people of all heritages, it is most common in people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. Most cases of factor XI deficiency are inherited and caused by changes (mutations) in the F11 gene. The condition is generally inherited in an autosomal recessive manner; however, it may follow an autosomal dominant pattern in some families. Treatment is often only recommended during periods of high bleeding risk (i.e. surgery) and may include fresh frozen plasma and/or antifibrinolytics (medications that improve blood clotting). Factor XI concentrates may be available for factor replacement in some countries.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa inherited ?
Answer: The most severe types of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that both copies of the COL7A1 gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  A milder form of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 70 percent of all people with autosomal dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa have inherited an altered COL7A1 gene from an affected parent. The remaining 30 percent of affected people have the condition as a result of a new mutation in the COL7A1 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for What I need to know about Living with Kidney Failure ?
Answer: Kidney failure means your kidneys no longer work well enough to do their job. You need treatment to replace the work your damaged kidneys have stopped doing. The treatments for kidney failure are
                
- hemodialysis  - peritoneal dialysis  - a kidney transplant
                
Your kidneys filter wastes and extra fluid from your blood to keep you healthy. The wastes and extra fluid become urine that is stored in your bladder until you urinate. When your kidneys fail, dialysis can take over a small part of the work your damaged kidneys can no longer do. You can make treatments work better by
                
- sticking to your treatment schedule  - taking all medicines your doctor prescribes  - following a special diet that keeps wastes from building up in your blood  - being active most days of the week
                
Hemodialysis
                
Hemodialysis is a treatment for kidney failure. Hemodialysis uses a machine to filter your blood outside your body. First, a dialysis nurse places two needles into your arm. A pump on the hemodialysis machine draws your blood through one of the needles into a tube. The tube takes the blood to a filter, called a dialyzer. Inside the dialyzer, your blood flows through thin fibers that are like straws. The wastes and extra fluid leave the blood through tiny holes in the fibers. Then, a different tube carries the filtered blood back to your body through the second needle.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Hemodialysis and Home Hemodialysis.
                
Peritoneal Dialysis
                
catheter
                
Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis
                
Kidney Transplant
                
A kidney transplant places a healthy kidney from another person into your body. The kidney may come from someone who has just died. Your doctor will place your name on a waiting list for a kidney. A family member or friend might be able to give you a kidney. Then you dont have to wait.
                
The new kidney takes over filtering your blood. The damaged kidneys usually stay where they are. The new kidney is placed in the front lower abdomen, on one side of the bladder. Your body normally attacks anything that shouldnt be there, such as bacteria. Your body will think the new kidney shouldnt be there. You will take medicines called immunosuppressants to keep your body from attacking the new kidney.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Transplantation.
                
*See the Pronunciation Guide for tips on how to say the the words in bold type.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Mycosis Fungoides and the Szary Syndrome ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are diseases in which lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell) become malignant (cancerous) and affect the skin.    - Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.     - A sign of mycosis fungoides is a red rash on the skin.    - In the Szary syndrome, cancerous T-cells are found in the blood.    - Tests that examine the skin and blood are used to detect (find) and diagnose mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are diseases in which lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell) become malignant (cancerous) and affect the skin.
                    Normally, the bone marrow makes blood stem cells (immature cells) that become mature blood stem cells over time. A blood stem cell may become a myeloid stem cell or a lymphoid stem cell. A myeloid stem cell becomes a red blood cell, white blood cell, or platelet. A lymphoid stem cell becomes a lymphoblast and then one of three types of lymphocytes (white blood cells):         -  B-cell lymphocytes that make antibodies to help fight infection.    -  T-cell lymphocytes that help B-lymphocytes make the antibodies that help fight infection.    -  Natural killer cells that attack cancer cells and viruses.         In mycosis fungoides, T-cell lymphocytes become cancerous and affect the skin. In the Szary syndrome, cancerous T-cell lymphocytes affect the skin and are in the blood.
                
                
                    Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
                    Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are the two most common types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma). For information about other types of skin cancer or non-Hodgkin lymphoma, see the following PDQ summaries:         -  Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment     -  Skin Cancer Treatment     -  Melanoma Treatment     -  Kaposi Sarcoma Treatment
                
              
                
                    In the Szary syndrome, cancerous T-cells are found in the blood.
                    Also, skin all over the body is reddened, itchy, peeling, and painful. There may also be patches, plaques, or tumors on the skin. It is not known if the Szary syndrome is an advanced form of mycosis fungoides or a separate disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How to diagnose Sideroblastic anemia ?
Answer: How is sideroblastic anemia diagnosed? The principle feature of sideroblastic anemia is slowly progressive, mild, life-long anemia which often goes unnoticed. Symptoms of iron overload may lead to the discovery of this underlying disorder. The history and clinical findings, together with laboratory findings, usually permit accurate diagnosis of each type. Laboratory evaluation may include complete blood count, iron studies, free erythrocyte protoporphyrin levels, MRI, bone marrow aspiration and liver biopsy. Molecular defects can be identified in several hereditary forms and in some patients with acquired sideroblastic anemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Renal oncocytoma inherited ?
Answer: Is a renal oncocytoma inherited?  Most renal oncocytomas are not inherited. They usually occur sporadically in people with no family history of tumors. However, in rare cases, they can occur in people with certain genetic syndromes such as tuberous sclerosis complex and Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome. Both of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to epidermolytic hyperkeratosis ?
Answer: Mutations in the KRT1 or KRT10 genes are responsible for epidermolytic hyperkeratosis. These genes provide instructions for making proteins called keratin 1 and keratin 10, which are found in cells called keratinocytes in the outer layer of the skin (the epidermis). The tough, fibrous keratin proteins attach to each other and form fibers called intermediate filaments, which form networks and provide strength and resiliency to the epidermis.  Mutations in the KRT1 or KRT10 genes lead to changes in the keratin proteins, preventing them from forming strong, stable intermediate filament networks within cells. Without a strong network, keratinocytes become fragile and are easily damaged, which can lead to blistering in response to friction or mild trauma. It is unclear how these mutations cause the overgrowth of epidermal cells that results in hyperkeratotic skin.  KRT1 gene mutations are associated with PS-type epidermal hyperkeratosis, and KRT10 gene mutations are usually associated with NPS-type. The keratin 1 protein is present in the keratinocytes of the skin on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet as well as other parts of the body, so mutations in the KRT1 gene lead to skin problems in these areas. The keratin 10 protein is not found in the skin of the palms and soles, so these areas are unaffected by mutations in the KRT10 gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis ?
Answer: Pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis is caused by mutations in the SLC34A2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called the type IIb sodium-phosphate cotransporter, which plays a role in the regulation of phosphate levels (phosphate homeostasis). Although this protein can be found in several organs and tissues in the body, it is located mainly in the lungs, specifically in cells in the alveoli called alveolar type II cells. These cells produce and recycle surfactant, which is a mixture of certain phosphate-containing fats (called phospholipids) and proteins that lines the lung tissue and makes breathing easy.  The recycling of surfactant releases phosphate into the alveoli. Research suggests that the type IIb sodium-phosphate cotransporter normally helps clear this phosphate. SLC34A2 gene mutations are thought to impair the activity of the type IIb sodium-phosphate cotransporter, resulting in the accumulation of phosphate in the alveoli. The accumulated phosphate forms the microliths that cause the signs and symptoms of pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of 20p12.3 microdeletion syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of 20p12.3 microdeletion syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 20p12.3 microdeletion syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Hypertelorism 90% Arrhythmia 50% Epicanthus 50% Hypoplasia of the zygomatic bone 50% Macrocephaly 50% Narrow mouth 50% Short stature 50% Abnormality of thumb phalanx 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Full cheeks 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Muscular hypotonia 7.5% Pectus carinatum 7.5% Preaxial foot polydactyly 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Thickened helices 7.5% Ventriculomegaly 7.5% Wide nasal bridge 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Thalassemias ?
Answer: Thalassemias (thal-a-SE-me-ahs) are inherited blood disorders. "Inherited" means that the disorder is passed from parents to children through genes.
                
Thalassemias cause the body to make fewer healthy red blood cells and less hemoglobin (HEE-muh-glow-bin) than normal. Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein in red blood cells. It carries oxygen to all parts of the body. Hemoglobin also carries carbon dioxide (a waste gas) from the body to the lungs, where it's exhaled.
                
People who have thalassemias can have mild or severe anemia (uh-NEE-me-uh). Anemia is caused by a lower than normal number of red blood cells or not enough hemoglobin in the red blood cells.
                
Overview
                
Normal hemoglobin, also called hemoglobin A, has four protein chainstwo alpha globin and two beta globin. The two major types of thalassemia, alpha and beta, are named after defects in these protein chains.
                
Four genes (two from each parent) are needed to make enough alpha globin protein chains. Alpha thalassemia trait occurs if one or two of the four genes are missing. If more than two genes are missing, moderate to severe anemia occurs.
                
The most severe form of alpha thalassemia is called alpha thalassemia major or hydrops fetalis. Babies who have this disorder usually die before or shortly after birth.
                
Two genes (one from each parent) are needed to make enough beta globin protein chains. Beta thalassemia occurs if one or both genes are altered.
                
The severity of beta thalassemia depends on how much one or both genes are affected. If both genes are affected, the result is moderate to severe anemia. The severe form of beta thalassemia is known as thalassemia major or Cooley's anemia.
                
Thalassemias affect males and females. The disorders occur most often among people of Italian, Greek, Middle Eastern, Southern Asian, and African descent. Severe forms usually are diagnosed in early childhood and are lifelong conditions.
                
Doctors diagnose thalassemias using blood tests. The disorders are treated with blood transfusions, medicines, and other procedures.
                
Outlook
                
Treatments for thalassemias have improved over the years. People who have moderate or severe thalassemias are now living longer and have better quality of life.
                
However, complications from thalassemias and their treatments are frequent. People who have moderate or severe thalassemias must closely follow their treatment plans. They need to take care of themselves to remain as healthy as possible.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: Do you have information about Calcium
Answer: Summary : You have more calcium in your body than any other mineral. Calcium has many important jobs. The body stores more than 99 percent of its calcium in the bones and teeth to help make and keep them strong. The rest is throughout the body in blood, muscle and the fluid between cells. Your body needs calcium to help muscles and blood vessels contract and expand, to secrete hormones and enzymes and to send messages through the nervous system.     It is important to get plenty of calcium in the foods you eat. Foods rich in calcium include       - Dairy products such as milk, cheese, and yogurt    - Leafy, green vegetables    - Fish with soft bones that you eat, such as canned sardines and salmon    - Calcium-enriched foods such as breakfast cereals, fruit juices, soy and rice drinks, and tofu. Check the product labels.       The exact amount of calcium you need depends on your age and other factors. Growing children and teenagers need more calcium than young adults. Older women need plenty of calcium to prevent osteoporosis. People who do not eat enough high-calcium foods should take a calcium supplement.    NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is multicentric osteolysis, nodulosis, and arthropathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Friedreich ataxia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Friedreich ataxia? Symptoms usually begin between the ages of 5 and 15 but can, on occasion, appear in adulthood or even as late as age 75. The first symptom to appear is usually difficulty in walking, or gait ataxia. The ataxia gradually worsens and slowly spreads to the arms and then the trunk. Over time, muscles begin to weaken and waste away, especially in the feet, lower legs, and hands, and deformities develop. Other symptoms include loss of tendon reflexes, especially in the knees and ankles. There is often a gradual loss of sensation in the extremities, which may spread to other parts of the body. Dysarthria (slowness and slurring of speech) develops, and the person is easily fatigued. Rapid, rhythmic, involuntary movements of the eye (nystagmus) are common. Most people with Friedreich's ataxia develop scoliosis (a curving of the spine to one side), which, if severe, may impair breathing. Other symptoms that may occur include chest pain, shortness of breath, and heart palpitations. These symptoms are the result of various forms of heart disease that often accompany Friedreich ataxia, such as cardiomyopathy (enlargement of the heart), myocardial fibrosis (formation of fiber-like material in the muscles of the heart), and cardiac failure. Heart rhythm abnormalities such as tachycardia (fast heart rate) and heart block (impaired conduction of cardiac impulses within the heart) are also common. About 20 percent of people with Friedreich ataxia develop carbohydrate intolerance and 10 percent develop diabetes mellitus. Some people lose hearing or eyesight. The rate of progression varies from person to person. Generally, within 10 to 20 years after the appearance of the first symptoms, the person is confined to a wheelchair, and in later stages of the disease individuals become completely incapacitated. Life expectancy may be affected, and many people with Friedreich ataxia die in adulthood from the associated heart disease, the most common cause of death. However, some people with less severe symptoms of Friedreich ataxia live much longer, sometimes into their sixties or seventies. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Friedreich ataxia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Reduced visual acuity 5% Visual impairment 5% Abnormal echocardiogram - Abnormal EKG - Abnormality of visual evoked potentials - Areflexia of lower limbs - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Congestive heart failure - Decreased amplitude of sensory action potentials - Decreased pyruvate carboxylase activity - Decreased sensory nerve conduction velocity - Diabetes mellitus - Dysarthria - Gait ataxia - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Impaired proprioception - Juvenile onset - Limb ataxia - Mitochondrial malic enzyme reduced - Nystagmus - Optic atrophy - Pes cavus - Scoliosis - Sensory neuropathy - Visual field defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Winchester syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Winchester syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Winchester syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for SUNCT Headache ?
Answer: There is no cure for these headaches. The disorder is not fatal but can cause considerable discomfort.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is Neurofibromatosis inherited ?
Answer: Is neurofibromatosis inherited? Neurofibromatosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with neurofibromatosis has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by trichohepatoenteric syndrome ?
Answer: Trichohepatoenteric syndrome is a rare condition with an estimated prevalence of about 1 in 1 million people. At least 44 cases have been reported in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Klippel-Trenaunay Syndrome (KTS) ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on congenital disorders such as KTS with the goal of finding new means to treat and prevent them.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is congenital diaphragmatic hernia inherited ?
Answer: Isolated congenital diaphragmatic hernia is rarely inherited. In almost all cases, there is only one affected individual in a family.  When congenital diaphragmatic hernia occurs as a feature of a genetic syndrome or chromosomal abnormality, it may cluster in families according to the inheritance pattern for that condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Dandy-Walker malformation inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Dandy-Walker malformation are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A small percentage of cases seem to run in families; however, Dandy-Walker malformation does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this disorder. First-degree relatives (such as siblings and children) of people with Dandy-Walker malformation have an increased risk of developing the condition compared with people in the general population.  When Dandy-Walker malformation is a feature of a genetic condition, it is inherited in the pattern of that condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva inherited ?
Answer: How is fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva inherited? Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In only a small number of cases, an affected person has inherited the mutation from one affected parent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Partington syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Partington syndrome? The signs and symptoms of Partington syndrome vary but may include: Mild to moderate intellectual disability Behavioral issues Dystonia, especially affecting the movement of the hands Dysarthria Abnormal gait (style of walking) Recurrent seizures Partington syndrome usually occurs in males; when it occurs in females, the signs and symptoms are often less severe. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Partington syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Delayed speech and language development - Dysarthria - EEG abnormality - Flexion contracture - Focal dystonia - Intellectual disability - Limb dystonia - Lower limb spasticity - Seizures - Triangular face - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Hypophosphatasia inherited ?
Answer: How is hypophosphatasia inherited? Perinatal (onset before birth) and infantile hypophosphatasia (HPP) are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene (ALPL) in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier. The milder forms, especially adult HPP and odontohypophosphatasia, may be inherited in an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant manner - depending on the effect the ALPL mutation has on enzyme activity. In autosomal dominant inheritance, having a mutation in only one copy of the ALPL gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant HPP has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation. Most people with autosomal dominant HPP have inherited the mutation from a parent who may or may not have symptoms. Not all people with a mutation that causes autosomal dominant HPP develop symptoms of the condition. While it is possible to have autosomal dominant HPP due to a new mutation that was not inherited (a de novo mutation), this has never been reported in HPP.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Rothmund-Thomson syndrome ?
Answer: Rothmund-Thomson syndrome is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown. About 300 people with this condition have been reported worldwide in scientific studies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Fraser syndrome ?
Answer: Fraser syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 200,000 newborns. The condition occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 fetuses that do not survive to birth.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Langerhans cell histiocytosis ?
Answer: Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a disorder in which excess immune system cells called Langerhans cells build up in the body. Langerhans cells, which help regulate the immune system, are normally found throughout the body, especially in the skin, lymph nodes, spleen, lungs, liver, and bone marrow. In Langerhans cell histiocytosis, excess immature Langerhans cells usually form tumors called granulomas. However, Langerhans cell histiocytosis is not generally considered to be a form of cancer.  In approximately 80 percent of affected individuals, one or more granulomas develop in the bones, causing pain and swelling. The granulomas, which usually occur in the skull or the long bones of the arms or legs, may cause the bone to fracture.  Granulomas also frequently occur in the skin, appearing as blisters, reddish bumps, or rashes which can be mild to severe. The pituitary gland may also be affected; this gland is located at the base of the brain and produces hormones that control many important body functions. Without hormone supplementation, affected individuals may experience delayed or absent puberty or an inability to have children (infertility). In addition, pituitary gland damage may result in the production of excessive amounts of urine (diabetes insipidus) and dysfunction of another gland called the thyroid. Thyroid dysfunction can affect the rate of chemical reactions in the body (metabolism), body temperature, skin and hair texture, and behavior.  In 15 to 20 percent of cases, Langerhans cell histiocytosis affects the lungs, liver, or blood-forming (hematopoietic) system; damage to these organs and tissues may be life-threatening. Lung involvement, which appears as swelling of the small airways (bronchioles) and blood vessels of the lungs, results in stiffening of the lung tissue, breathing problems, and increased risk of infection. Hematopoietic involvement, which occurs when the Langerhans cells crowd out blood-forming cells in the bone marrow, leads to a general reduction in the number of blood cells (pancytopenia). Pancytopenia results in fatigue due to low numbers of red blood cells (anemia), frequent infections due to low numbers of white blood cells (neutropenia), and clotting problems due to low numbers of platelets (thrombocytopenia).  Other signs and symptoms that may occur in Langerhans cell histiocytosis, depending on which organs and tissues have Langerhans cell deposits, include swollen lymph nodes, abdominal pain, yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice), delayed puberty, protruding eyes, dizziness, irritability, and seizures. About 1 in 50 affected individuals experience deterioration of neurological function (neurodegeneration).  Langerhans cell histiocytosis is often diagnosed in childhood, usually between ages 2 and 3, but can appear at any age. Most individuals with adult-onset Langerhans cell histiocytosis are current or past smokers; in about two-thirds of adult-onset cases the disorder affects only the lungs.  The severity of Langerhans cell histiocytosis, and its signs and symptoms, vary widely among affected individuals. Certain presentations or forms of the disorder were formerly considered to be separate diseases. Older names that were sometimes used for forms of Langerhans cell histiocytosis include eosinophilic granuloma, Hand-Schller-Christian disease, and Letterer-Siwe disease.  In many people with Langerhans cell histiocytosis, the disorder eventually goes away with appropriate treatment. It may even disappear on its own, especially if the disease occurs only in the skin. However, some complications of the condition, such as diabetes insipidus or other effects of tissue and organ damage, may be permanent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Andermann syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Andermann syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Motor and Sensory Neuropathy with Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum  - Genetic Testing Registry: Andermann syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens ?
Answer: Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD) occurs in males when the tubes that carry sperm out of the testes (vas deferens) fail to develop properly. Although the testes usually develop and function normally, sperm cannot be transported through the vas deferens to become part of semen. As a result, men with this condition are unable to father children (infertile) unless they use assisted reproductive technologies. This condition has not been reported to affect sex drive or sexual performance. This condition can occur alone or as a sign of cystic fibrosis, an inherited disease of the mucus glands. Many men with CBAVD do not have the other characteristic features of cystic fibrosis; however, some men with this condition may experience mild respiratory or digestive problems.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Creatine Deficiency Syndromes  - Genetic Testing Registry: Deficiency of guanidinoacetate methyltransferase   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Sickle Cell Disease ?
Answer: Screening Tests
                
People who do not know whether they make sickle hemoglobin (hemoglobin S) or another abnormal hemoglobin (such as C,  thalassemia, E) can find out by having their blood tested. This way, they can learn whether they carry a gene (i.e., have the trait) for an abnormal hemoglobin that they could pass on to a child.
                
When each parent has this information, he or she can be better informed about the chances of having a child with some type of sickle cell disease (SCD), such as hemoglobin SS, SC, S thalassemia, or others.
                
Newborn Screening
                
When a child has SCD, it is very important to diagnose it early to better prevent complications.
                
Every state in the United States, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories require that every baby is tested for SCD as part of a newborn screening program.
                
In newborn screening programs, blood from a heel prick is collected in spots on a special paper. The hemoglobin from this blood is then analyzed in special labs.
                
Newborn screening results are sent to the doctor who ordered the test and to the childs primary doctor.
                
If a baby is found to have SCD, health providers from a special follow-up newborn screening group contact the family directly to make sure that the parents know the results. The child is always retested to be sure that the diagnosis is correct.
                
Newborn screening programs also find out whether the baby has an abnormal hemoglobin trait. If so, parents are informed, and counseling is offered.
                
Remember that when a child has sickle cell trait or SCD, a future sibling, or the childs own future child, may be at risk. These possibilities should be discussed with the primary care doctor, a blood specialist called a hematologist, and/or a genetics counselor.
                
Prenatal Screening
                
Doctors can also diagnose SCD before a baby is born. This is done using a sample of amniotic fluid, the liquid in the sac surrounding a growing embryo, or tissue taken from the placenta, the organ that attaches the umbilical cord to the mothers womb.
                
Testing before birth can be done as early as 810 weeks into the pregnancy. This testing looks for the sickle hemoglobin gene rather than the abnormal hemoglobin.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: How to diagnose Dermatitis Herpetiformis: Skin Manifestation of Celiac Disease (For Health Care Professionals) ?
Answer: A skin biopsy is the first step in diagnosing DH. Direct immunofluorescence of clinically normal skin adjacent to a lesion shows granular IgA deposits in the upper dermis. Histology of lesional skin may show microabscesses containing neutrophils and eosinophils. However, histology may reveal only excoriation due to the intense itching that patients experience.
                
Blood tests for antiendomysial or anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies may also suggest celiac disease. Blood tests for epidermal transglutaminase antibodies are positive in more than 90 percent of cases.5 All of these tests will become negative with prolonged adherence to a gluten-free diet.
                
A positive biopsy and serology confirm DH and should be taken as indirect evidence of small bowel damage. A biopsy of the small bowel is usually not needed for DH diagnosis. However, if clinical signs of gastrointestinal disease are evident on examination, further workup may be required.2 Whether or not intestinal damage is evident, a gluten-free diet should be implemented because the rash of DH is gluten sensitive.4
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to ethylmalonic encephalopathy ?
Answer: Mutations in the ETHE1 gene cause ethylmalonic encephalopathy.  The ETHE1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme that plays an important role in energy production. It is active in mitochondria, which are the energy-producing centers within cells. Little is known about the enzyme's exact function, however.  Mutations in the ETHE1 gene lead to the production of a nonfunctional version of the enzyme or prevent any enzyme from being made. A lack of the ETHE1 enzyme impairs the body's ability to make energy in mitochondria. Additionally, a loss of this enzyme allows potentially toxic compounds, including ethylmalonic acid and lactic acid, to build up in the body. Excess amounts of these compounds can be detected in urine. It remains unclear how a loss of the ETHE1 enzyme leads to progressive brain dysfunction and the other features of ethylmalonic encephalopathy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria? Genetic testing is not available for bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria because the underlying genetic cause is unknown. How is bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria diagnosed? A diagnosis of bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria (BPP) is typically based on a thorough physical examination, a detailed medical history and a complete neurological evaluation, which many include the following tests: Electroencephalography (EEG) Computed tomography (CT) scanning Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Pallister-Hall syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome ?
Answer: Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome is caused by mutations in the PSMB8 gene. This gene provides instructions for making one part (subunit) of specialized cell structures called immunoproteasomes, which are found primarily in immune system cells. Immunoproteasomes play an important role in regulating the immune system's response to foreign invaders, such as viruses and bacteria. One of the primary functions of immunoproteasomes is to help the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders, so the immune system can respond appropriately to infection.  Mutations in the PSMB8 gene greatly reduce the amount of protein produced from the PSMB8 gene, which impairs the normal assembly of immunoproteasomes and causes the immune system to malfunction. For unknown reasons, the malfunctioning immune system triggers abnormal inflammation that can damage the body's own tissues and organs; as a result, Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome is classified as an autoinflammatory disorder.  Abnormal inflammation likely underlies many of the signs and symptoms of Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome, including the nodular erythema, recurrent fevers, joint problems, and hepatosplenomegaly. It is less clear how mutations in the PSMB8 gene lead to muscle wasting and lipodystrophy. Studies suggest that the protein produced from the PSMB8 gene may play a separate role in the maturation of fat cells (adipocytes), and a shortage of this protein may interfere with the normal development and function of these cells.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Sialadenitis ?
Answer: What causes sialadenitis? Sialadenitis usually occurs after hyposecretion (reduced flow from the salivary glands) or duct obstruction, but may develop without an obvious cause. Saliva flow can be reduced in people who are sick or recovering from surgery, or people who are dehydrated, malnourished, or immunosuppressed. A stone or a kink in the salivary duct can also diminish saliva flow, as can certain medications (such as antihistamines, diuretics, psychiatric medications, beta-blockers, or barbiturates). It often occurs in chronically ill people with xerostomia (dry mouth), people with Sjogren syndrome, and in those who have had radiation therapy to the oral cavity. The most common causative organism in the infection is Staphylococcus aureus; others include streptococci, coliforms, and various anaerobic bacteria. Although less common than bacteria, several viruses have also been implicated in sialadenitis. These include the mumps virus, HIV, coxsackievirus, parainfluenza types I and II, influenza A, and herpes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to raise the risk of developing epilepsy. About 70 percent of people who inherit a mutation in the CHRNA2, CHRNA4, or CHRNB2 gene will develop seizures. In most cases, an affected person has one affected parent and other relatives with the condition. Other cases are described as sporadic, which means an affected person has no family history of the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) retinoblastoma ?
Answer: Retinoblastoma is a rare type of eye cancer that usually develops in early childhood, typically before the age of 5. This form of cancer develops in the retina, which is the specialized light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye that detects light and color.  In most children with retinoblastoma, the disease affects only one eye. However, one out of three children with retinoblastoma develops cancer in both eyes. The most common first sign of retinoblastoma is a visible whiteness in the pupil called "cat's eye reflex" or leukocoria. This unusual whiteness is particularly noticeable in photographs taken with a flash. Other signs and symptoms of retinoblastoma include crossed eyes or eyes that do not point in the same direction (strabismus); persistent eye pain, redness, or irritation; and blindness or poor vision in the affected eye(s).  Retinoblastoma is often curable when it is diagnosed early. However, if it is not treated promptly, this cancer can spread beyond the eye to other parts of the body. This advanced form of retinoblastoma can be life-threatening.  When retinoblastoma is associated with a gene mutation that occurs in all of the body's cells, it is known as germinal retinoblastoma. People with this form of retinoblastoma also have an increased risk of developing several other cancers outside the eye. Specifically, they are more likely to develop a cancer of the pineal gland in the brain (pinealoma), a type of bone cancer known as osteosarcoma, cancers of soft tissues such as muscle, and an aggressive form of skin cancer called melanoma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to prevent Inguinal Hernia ?
Answer: People cannot prevent the weakness in the abdominal wall that causes indirect inguinal hernias. However, people may be able to prevent direct inguinal hernias by maintaining a healthy weight and not smoking.
                
People can keep inguinal hernias from getting worse or keep inguinal hernias from recurring after surgery by
                
- avoiding heavy lifting  - using the legs, not the back, when lifting objects  - preventing constipation and straining during bowel movements  - maintaining a healthy weight  - not smoking
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Duane syndrome type 1 ?
Answer: How might Duane syndrome type 1 be treated? Management of Duane syndrome is mainly supportive. It may involve treatment of amblyopia ("lazy eye"); wearing glasses or contact lenses; the use of prisms to correct for abnormal head posture; or possible eye muscle surgery. The majority of people with Duane syndrome do not need surgery. However, surgery may be indicated if necessary to reduce severe misalignment of the eyes (strabismus); improve an unacceptable head position; treat a significant upshoot or downshoot; or fix displacement of the eyeball within the orbit (enophthalmos). Unfortunately, surgery does not restore function to the affected nerve and muscle, and no surgical technique has been completely successful in eliminating the abnormal eye movements. Surgery for Duane syndrome usually involves adjusting the other eye muscles to compensate and allow for better eye alignment. While it cannot fix the underlying problem, it can substantially improve signs or symptoms. Some surgical procedures or combinations of procedures may be successful in improving or eliminating head turns and strabismus.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Heart Transplantation
Answer: Summary : A heart transplant removes a damaged or diseased heart and replaces it with a healthy one. The healthy heart comes from a donor who has died. It is the last resort for people with heart failure when all other treatments have failed. The heart failure might have been caused by coronary heart disease, damaged heart valves or heart muscles, congenital heart defects, or viral infections of the heart.    Although heart transplant surgery is a life-saving measure, it has many risks. Careful monitoring, treatment, and regular medical care can prevent or help manage some of these risks.    After the surgery, most heart transplant patients can return to their normal levels of activity. However, fewer than 30 percent return to work for many different reasons.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Urinary Tract Infections ?
Answer: Urinary tract infections (UTI) are a common bladder problem, especially as people age. UTIs are the second most common type of infection in the body. Each year, UTIs cause more than 8 million visits to health care providers. UTIs can happen anywhere in the urinary system (which includes the kidneys, bladder, and urethra). But UTIs are most common in the bladder. A UTI in the bladder is called cystitis. Infections in the bladder can spread to the kidneys. A UTI in the kidneys is called pyelonephritis. Sometimes, a UTI can also develop in the urethra, but this is less common. A UTI in the urethra is called urethritis. Learn more about urinary tract infections in adults.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Punctate inner choroidopathy ?
Answer: Punctate inner choroidopathy (PIC) is an inflammatory disorder that primarily affects the choroid of the eye and occurs predominantly in young, nearsighted (myopic) women. Signs and symptoms may include scotomata, blurred vision, photopsias, floaters, photophobia, distorted vision (metamorphopsia), and/or loss of peripheral vision. The majority of cases are self-limited with good visual prognosis, but permanent and severe visual loss can occur as a result of the development of choroidal neovascular membranes (CNV). The cause of PIC is not known, but it is thought to involve both genetic predisposition and environmental factors. The majority of affected individuals who do not have CNV do not require treatment; for others, treatment may include medication, laser photocoagulation, photodynamic therapy (treatment with drugs that become active when exposed to light) and/or surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is X-linked hyper IgM syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: - a need to urinate frequently, especially at night  - difficulty starting urination or holding back urine  - inability to urinate  - weak or interrupted flow of urine a need to urinate frequently, especially at night difficulty starting urination or holding back urine inability to urinate weak or interrupted flow of urine If prostate cancer develops and is not treated, it can cause these symptoms: - painful or burning urination  - difficulty in having an erection  - painful ejaculation  - blood in urine or semen  - pain or stiffness in the lower back, hips, or upper thighs painful or burning urination difficulty in having an erection painful ejaculation blood in urine or semen pain or stiffness in the lower back, hips, or upper thighs
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Progressive hemifacial atrophy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Progressive hemifacial atrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Progressive hemifacial atrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Irregular hyperpigmentation 90% Abnormality of the musculature 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 50% Asymmetric growth 50% Seizures 50% Deeply set eye 7.5% Heterochromia iridis 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Alopecia areata - Ataxia - Blepharophimosis - Delayed eruption of teeth - Dental malocclusion - Hemifacial atrophy - Horner syndrome - Kyphosis - Microtia - Migraine - Onset - Poliosis - Short mandibular rami - Sporadic - Trigeminal neuralgia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Rectal Cancer ?
Answer: Tests that examine the rectum and colon are used to detect (find) and diagnose rectal cancer. Tests used to diagnose rectal cancer include the following:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   Digital rectal exam (DRE): An exam of the rectum. The doctor or nurse inserts a lubricated, gloved finger into the lower part of the rectum to feel for lumps or anything else that seems unusual. In women, the vagina may also be examined.    -   Colonoscopy : A procedure to look inside the rectum and colon for polyps (small pieces of bulging tissue), abnormal areas, or cancer. A colonoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove polyps or tissue samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of cancer.    -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope to check for signs of cancer. Tumor tissue that is removed during the biopsy may be checked to see if the patient is likely to have the gene mutation that causes HNPCC. This may help to plan treatment. The following tests may be used:               -  Reverse transcriptionpolymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) test: A laboratory test in which cells in a sample of tissue are studied using chemicals to look for certain changes in the structure or function of genes.      -  Immunohistochemistry : A test that uses antibodies to check for certain antigens in a sample of tissue. The antibody is usually linked to a radioactive substance or a dye that causes the tissue to light up under a microscope. This type of test may be used to tell the difference between different types of cancer.             -   Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) assay : A test that measures the level of CEA in the blood. CEA is released into the bloodstream from both cancer cells and normal cells. When found in higher than normal amounts, it can be a sign of rectal cancer or other conditions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Retinoblastoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Unna-Thost palmoplantar keratoderma ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Unna-Thost palmoplantar keratoderma? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Unna-Thost palmoplantar keratoderma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Nonepidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by desmoid tumor ?
Answer: Desmoid tumors are rare, affecting an estimated 1 to 2 per 500,000 people worldwide. In the United States, 900 to 1,500 new cases are diagnosed per year. Sporadic desmoid tumors are more common than those associated with familial adenomatous polyposis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Medullary cystic kidney disease 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Medullary cystic kidney disease 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Medullary cystic kidney disease 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adult onset - Anemia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebral cortical atrophy - Decreased glomerular filtration rate - Elevated serum creatinine - Glomerulosclerosis - Gout - Hypertension - Hypotension - Impaired renal uric acid clearance - Renal cortical atrophy - Renal corticomedullary cysts - Renal hypoplasia - Renal salt wasting - Stage 5 chronic kidney disease - Tubular atrophy - Tubular basement membrane disintegration - Tubulointerstitial fibrosis - Tubulointerstitial nephritis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Primary Biliary Cirrhosis ?
Answer: The causes of primary biliary cirrhosis are unknown. Most research suggests it is an autoimmune disease. The immune system protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. An autoimmune disease is a disorder in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs. In primary biliary cirrhosis, the immune system attacks the small bile ducts in the liver.
                
Genetics, or inherited genes, can make a person more likely to develop primary biliary cirrhosis. Primary biliary cirrhosis is more common in people who have a parent or siblingparticularly an identical twinwith the disease. In people who are genetically more likely to develop primary biliary cirrhosis, environmental factors may trigger or worsen the disease, including
                
- exposure to toxic chemicals  - smoking  - infections
                
Genetics can also make some people more likely to develop other autoimmune diseases, such as
                
- autoimmune hepatitis, a disease in which the bodys immune system attacks liver cells  - Sjgrens syndrome, a condition in which the immune system attacks the glands that produce tears and saliva  - autoimmune thyroid dysfunctions, conditions in which the immune system attacks the thyroid gland
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is Kabuki syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When Kabuki syndrome is caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  When Kabuki syndrome is caused by mutations in the KDM6A gene, it is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The KDM6A gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Most cases of Kabuki syndrome result from a new mutation in one of these genes and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a few cases, an affected person is believed to have inherited the mutation from one affected parent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) 48,XXYY syndrome ?
Answer: 48,XXYY syndrome is a chromosomal condition, characterized by the presence of an extra X and Y chromosome in males, that causes medical and behavioral problems. 48,XXYY can be considered a variant of Klinefelter syndrome. Individuals with 48,XXYY are usually considerably tall with small testes that do not function normally leading to infertility. In addition, affected individuals have behavioral problems such as anxiety, aggressiveness, problems communicating, hyperactivity, depression, as well as general learning disabilities and intellectual impairment.  Other medical probelms can include congenital heart defects, bone abnormalities, tremor, obesity, type 2 diabetes and/or respiratory problems. Patients have an essentially normal life expectancy but require regular medical follow-up.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is a hereditary condition in which red blood cells break down (hemolysis) when the body is exposed to certain foods, drugs, infections or stress. This condition occurs when a person is missing or doesn't have enough glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, an enzyme which helps red blood cells work properly. G6PD deficiency is more likely to occur in males, particularly African Americans, and those from certain parts of Africa, Asia, and the Mediterranean. This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the G6PD gene. Treatment may involve medicines to treat an infection, stopping drugs that are causing red blood cell destruction, and/or transfusions, in some cases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Health Problems in Pregnancy ?
Answer: Every pregnancy has some risk of problems. The causes can be conditions you already have or conditions you develop. They also include being pregnant with more than one baby, previous problem pregnancies, or being over age 35. They can affect your health and the health of your baby.    If you have a chronic condition, you should talk to your health care provider about how to minimize your risk before you get pregnant. Once you are pregnant, you may need a health care team to monitor your pregnancy. Examples of common conditions that can complicate a pregnancy include       -  Heart disease     -  High blood pressure    -  Kidney problems    -  Autoimmune disorders    -  Sexually transmitted diseases    -  Diabetes    -  Cancer     - Infections        Other conditions that can make pregnancy risky can happen while you are pregnant - for example, gestational diabetes and Rh incompatibility. Good prenatal care can help detect and treat them.    Some discomforts, like nausea, back pain, and fatigue, are common during pregnancy. Sometimes it is hard to know what is normal. Call your doctor or midwife if something is bothering or worrying you.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 ?
Answer: Prediabetes is when the amount of glucose in your blood is above normal yet not high enough to be called diabetes. With prediabetes, your chances of getting type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke are higher. With some weight loss and moderate physical activity, you can delay or prevent type 2 diabetes. You can even return to normal glucose levels, possibly without taking any medicines.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia ?
Answer: Unfortunately, no treatment is available yet to fix faulty airway cilia. (Cilia are tiny, hair-like structures that line the airways.) Thus, treatment for primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) focuses on which symptoms and complications you have.
                
The main goals of treating PCD are to:
                
Control and treat lung, sinus, and ear infections
                
Remove trapped mucus from the lungs and airways
                
Specialists Involved
                
Many doctors may help care for someone who has PCD. For example, a neonatologist may suspect PCD or another lung disorder if a newborn has breathing problems at birth. A neonatologist is a doctor who specializes in treating newborns.
                
A pediatrician may suspect PCD if a child has chronic (ongoing) sinus, ear, and/or lung infections. A pediatrician is a doctor who specializes in treating children. This type of doctor provides children with ongoing care from an early age and treats conditions such as ear infections and breathing problems.
                
An otolaryngologist also may help diagnose and treat PCD. This type of doctor treats ear, nose, and throat disorders and also is called an ear, nose, and throat (ENT) specialist. If a child has chronic sinus or ear infections, an ENT specialist may be involved in the child's care.
                
A pulmonologist may help diagnose or treat lung problems related to PCD. This type of doctor specializes in diagnosing and treating lung diseases and conditions. Most people who have PCD have lung problems at some point in their lives.
                
A pathologist is a doctor who specializes in identifying diseases by studying cells and tissues under a microscope. This type of doctor may help diagnose PCD by looking at cilia under a microscope.
                
A pathologist also may look at mucus samples to see what types of bacteria are causing infections. This information can help your doctor decide which treatments to prescribe.
                
Treatments for Breathing and Lung Problems
                
Standard treatments for breathing and lung problems in people who have PCD are chest physical therapy (CPT), exercise, and medicines.
                
One of the main goals of these treatments is to get you to cough. Coughing clears mucus from the airways, which is important for people who have PCD. For this reason, your doctor also may advise you to avoid medicines that suppress coughing.
                
Chest Physical Therapy
                
CPT also is called chest clapping or percussion. It involves pounding your chest and back over and over with your hands or a device to loosen the mucus from your lungs so that you can cough it up.
                
You might sit down or lie on your stomach with your head down while you do CPT. Gravity and force help drain the mucus from your lungs.
                
Some people find CPT hard or uncomfortable to do. Several devices have been made to help with CPT, such as:
                
An electric chest clapper, known as a mechanical percussor.
                
An inflatable therapy vest that uses high-frequency airwaves. The airwaves force the mucus that's deep in your lungs toward your upper airways so you can cough it up.
                
A small hand-held device that you breathe out through. The device causes vibrations that dislodge the mucus.
                
A mask that creates vibrations to help break the mucus loose from your airway walls.
                
Breathing techniques also may help dislodge mucus so you can cough it up. These techniques include forcing out a couple of short breaths or deeper breaths and then doing relaxed breathing. This may help loosen the mucus in your lungs and open your airways.
                
Exercise
                
Aerobic exercise that makes you breathe harder helps loosen the mucus in your airways so you can cough it up. Exercise also helps improve your overall physical condition.
                
Talk with your doctor about what types and amounts of exercise are safe for you or your child.
                
Medicines
                
If you have PCD, your doctor may prescribe antibiotics, bronchodilators, or anti-inflammatory medicines. These medicines help treat lung infections, open up the airways, and reduce swelling.
                
Antibiotics are the main treatment to prevent or treat lung infections. Your doctor may prescribe oral or intravenous (IV) antibiotics.
                
Oral antibiotics often are used to treat mild lung infections. For severe or hard-to-treat infections, you may be given IV antibiotics through a tube inserted into a vein.
                
To help decide which antibiotics you need, your doctor may send mucus samples to a pathologist. The pathologist will try to find out which bacteria are causing the infection.
                
Bronchodilators help open the airways by relaxing the muscles around them. You inhale these medicines. Often, they're taken just before CPT to help clear mucus from your lungs. You also may take bronchodilators before inhaling other medicines into your lungs.
                
Anti-inflammatory medicines can help reduce swelling in your airways that's caused by ongoing infections. These medicines may be inhaled or oral.
                
Treatments for Sinus and Ear Infections
                
To treat infections, your doctor may recommend saline nasal washes and anti-inflammatory nasal spray. If these treatments aren't enough, you may need medicines, such as antibiotics. If antibiotics don't work, surgery may be an option.
                
Tympanostomy (tim-pan-OS-toe-me) is a procedure in which small tubes are inserted into the eardrums to help drain mucus from the ears. This procedure may help children who have hearing problems caused by PCD.
                
Nasal or sinus surgery may help drain the sinuses and provide short-term relief of symptoms. However, the long-term benefits of this treatment are unclear.
                
Treatments for Advanced Lung Disease
                
People who have PCD may develop a serious lung condition called bronchiectasis. This condition often is treated with medicines, hydration (drinking plenty of fluids), and CPT.
                
If bronchiectasis severely affects part of your lung, surgery may be used to remove that area of lung.
                
In very rare cases, if other treatments haven't worked, lung transplant may be an option for severe lung disease. A lung transplant is surgery to remove a person's diseased lung and replace it with a healthy lung from a deceased donor.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: Is Smith-Magenis syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Smith-Magenis syndrome is typically not inherited. This condition usually results from a genetic change that occurs during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Most often, people with Smith-Magenis syndrome have no history of the condition in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to metachromatic leukodystrophy ?
Answer: Most individuals with metachromatic leukodystrophy have mutations in the ARSA gene, which provides instructions for making the enzyme arylsulfatase A. This enzyme is located in cellular structures called lysosomes, which are the cell's recycling centers. Within lysosomes, arylsulfatase A helps break down sulfatides. A few individuals with metachromatic leukodystrophy have mutations in the PSAP gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is broken up (cleaved) into smaller proteins that assist enzymes in breaking down various fats. One of these smaller proteins is called saposin B; this protein works with arylsulfatase A to break down sulfatides.  Mutations in the ARSA or PSAP genes result in a decreased ability to break down sulfatides, resulting in the accumulation of these substances in cells. Excess sulfatides are toxic to the nervous system. The accumulation gradually destroys myelin-producing cells, leading to the impairment of nervous system function that occurs in metachromatic leukodystrophy.  In some cases, individuals with very low arylsulfatase A activity show no symptoms of metachromatic leukodystrophy. This condition is called pseudoarylsulfatase deficiency.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to spastic paraplegia type 4 ?
Answer: Mutations in the SPAST gene cause spastic paraplegia type 4. The SPAST gene provides instructions for producing a protein called spastin. Spastin is found throughout the body, particularly in certain nerve cells (neurons). The spastin protein plays a role in the function of microtubules, which are rigid, hollow fibers that make up the cell's structural framework (the cytoskeleton). Microtubules are also involved in transporting cell components and facilitating cell division. Spastin likely helps restrict microtubule length and disassemble microtubule structures when they are no longer needed. Mutations in spastin impair the microtubules' ability to transport cell components, especially in nerve cells; researchers believe this contributes to the major signs and symptoms of spastic paraplegia type 4.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the stages of Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - After prostate cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the prostate or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for prostate cancer:         - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After prostate cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the prostate or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the prostate or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. The results of the tests used to diagnose prostate cancer are often also used to stage the disease. (See the General Information section.) In prostate cancer, staging tests may not be done unless the patient has symptoms or signs that the cancer has spread, such as bone pain, a high PSA level, or a high Gleason score.   The following tests and procedures also may be used in the staging process:         -   Bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in the bones and is detected by a scanner.     -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   Pelvic lymphadenectomy : A surgical procedure to remove the lymph nodes in the pelvis. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells.    -   Seminal vesicle biopsy : The removal of fluid from the seminal vesicles (glands that make semen) using a needle. A pathologist views the fluid under a microscope to look for cancer cells.    -   ProstaScint scan : A procedure to check for cancer that has spread from the prostate to other parts of the body, such as the lymph nodes. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material attaches to prostate cancer cells and is detected by a scanner. The radioactive material shows up as a bright spot on the picture in areas where there are a lot of prostate cancer cells.        The stage of the cancer is based on the results of the staging and diagnostic tests, including the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test and the Gleason score. The tissue samples removed during the biopsy are used to find out the Gleason score. The Gleason score ranges from 2-10 and describes how different the cancer cells look from normal cells and how likely it is that the tumor will spread. The lower the number, the less likely the tumor is to spread.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if prostate cancer spreads to the bone, the cancer cells in the bone are actually prostate cancer cells. The disease is metastatic prostate cancer, not bone cancer.    Denosumab, a monoclonal antibody, may be used to prevent bone metastases.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for prostate cancer:
                    Stage I    In stage I, cancer is found in the prostate only. The cancer:             - is found by needle biopsy (done for a high PSA level) or in a small amount of tissue during surgery for other reasons (such as benign prostatic hyperplasia). The PSA level is lower than 10 and the Gleason score is 6 or lower; or     - is found in one-half or less of one lobe of the prostate. The PSA level is lower than 10 and the Gleason score is 6 or lower; or     - cannot be felt during a digital rectal exam and cannot be seen in imaging tests. Cancer is found in one-half or less of one lobe of the prostate. The PSA level and the Gleason score are not known.               Stage II    In stage II, cancer is more advanced than in stage I, but has not spread outside the prostate. Stage II is divided into stages IIA and IIB.    In stage IIA, cancer:            -  is found by needle biopsy (done for a high PSA level) or in a small amount of tissue during surgery for other reasons (such as benign prostatic hyperplasia). The PSA level is lower than 20 and the Gleason score is 7; or     -  is found by needle biopsy (done for a high PSA level) or in a small amount of tissue during surgery for other reasons (such as benign prostatic hyperplasia). The PSA level is at least 10 but lower than 20 and the Gleason score is 6 or lower; or     - is found in one-half or less of one lobe of the prostate. The PSA level is at least 10 but lower than 20 and the Gleason score is 6 or lower; or     - is found in one-half or less of one lobe of the prostate. The PSA level is lower than 20 and the Gleason score is 7; or     - is found in more than one-half of one lobe of the prostate.            In stage IIB, cancer:            - is found in opposite sides of the prostate. The PSA can be any level and the Gleason score can range from 2 to 10; or     - cannot be felt during a digital rectal exam and cannot be seen in imaging tests. The PSA level is 20 or higher and the Gleason score can range from 2 to 10; or     - cannot be felt during a digital rectal exam and cannot be seen in imaging tests. The PSA can be any level and the Gleason score is 8 or higher.              Stage III    In stage III, cancer has spread beyond the outer layer of the prostate and may have spread to the seminal vesicles. The PSA can be any level and the Gleason score can range from 2 to 10.       Stage IV    In stage IV, the PSA can be any level and the Gleason score can range from 2 to 10. Also, cancer:            - has spread beyond the seminal vesicles to nearby tissue or organs, such as the rectum, bladder, or pelvic wall; or      - may have spread to the seminal vesicles or to nearby tissue or organs, such as the rectum, bladder, or pelvic wall. Cancer has spread to nearby lymph nodes; or     - has spread to distant parts of the body, which may include lymph nodes or bones. Prostate cancer often spreads to the bones.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for Bowen-Conradi syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Bowen-Conradi syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Bowen-Conradi syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Feeding Tube--Infants   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Miller-Dieker syndrome ?
Answer: Miller-Dieker syndrome is a genetic condition characterized by lissencephaly, typical facial features, and severe neurologic abnormalities. Symptoms may include severe intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, muscle stiffness, weak muscle tone and feeding difficulties. Miller-Dieker syndrome is caused by a deletion of genetic material near the end of the short (p) arm of chromosome 17. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Mitral Valve Prolapse ?
Answer: Most people who have mitral valve prolapse (MVP) dont need treatment because they dont have symptoms and complications.
                
Even people who do have symptoms may not need treatment. The presence of symptoms doesnt always mean that the backflow of blood through the valve is significant.
                
People who have MVP and troublesome mitral valve backflow may be treated with medicines, surgery, or both.
                
The goals of treating MVP include:
                
Correcting the underlying mitral valve problem, if necessary
                
Preventinginfective endocarditis,arrhythmias, and other complications
                
Relieving symptoms
                
Medicines
                
Medicines called beta blockers may be used to treatpalpitationsand chest discomfort in people who have little or no mitral valve backflow.
                
If you have significant backflow and symptoms, your doctor may prescribe:
                
Blood-thinning medicines to reduce the risk of blood clots forming if you haveatrial fibrillation.
                
Digoxin to strengthen your heartbeat.
                
Diuretics (fluidpills) to remove excess sodium and fluid in your body and lungs.
                
Medicines such as flecainide and procainamide to regulate your heart rhythms.
                
Vasodilators to widen your blood vessels and reduce your hearts workload. Examples of vasodilators are isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine.
                
Take all medicines regularly, as your doctor prescribes. Dont change the amount of your medicine or skip a dose unless your doctor tells you to.
                
Surgery
                
Surgery is done only if the mitral valve is very abnormal and blood is flowing back into the atrium. The main goal of surgery is to improve symptoms and reduce the risk ofheart failure.
                
The timing of the surgery is important. If its done too early and your leaking valve is working fairly well, you may be put at needless risk from surgery. If its done too late, you may have heart damage that can't be fixed.
                
Surgical Approaches
                
Traditionally, heart surgeons repair or replace a mitral valve by making an incision (cut) in the breastbone and exposing the heart.
                
A small but growing number of surgeons are using another approach that involves one or more small cuts through the side of the chest wall. This results in less cutting, reduced blood loss, and a shorter hospital stay. However, not all hospitals offer this method.
                
Valve Repair and Valve Replacement
                
In mitral valve surgery, the valve is repaired or replaced. Valve repair is preferred when possible. Repair is less likely than replacement to weaken the heart. Repair also lowers the risk of infection and decreases the need for lifelong use of blood-thinning medicines.
                
If repair isnt an option, the valve can be replaced. Mechanical and biological valves are used as replacement valves.
                
Mechanical valves are man-made and can last a lifetime. People who have mechanical valves must take blood-thinning medicines for the rest of their lives.
                
Biological valves are taken from cows or pigs or made from human tissue. Many people who have biological valves dont need to take blood-thinning medicines for the rest of their lives. The major drawback of biological valves is that they weaken over time and often last only about 10 years.
                
After surgery, youll likely stay in the hospitals intensive care unit for 2 to 3 days. Overall, most people who have mitral valve surgery spend about 1 to 2 weeks in the hospital. Complete recovery takes a few weeks to several months, depending on your health before surgery.
                
If youve had valve repair or replacement, you may need antibiotics before dental work and surgery. These procedures can allow bacteria to enter your bloodstream. Antibiotics can help prevent infective endocarditis, a serious heart valve infection. Discuss with your doctor whether you need to take antibiotics before such procedures.
                
Transcatheter Valve Therapy
                
Interventional cardiologists may be able to repair leaky mitral valves by implanting a device using a catheter (tube) inserted through a large blood vessel. This approach is less invasive and can prevent a person from havingopen-heart surgery. At present, the device is only approved for people with severe mitral regurgitation who cannot undergo surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Beta-thalassemia ?
Answer: Beta-thalassemia is a blood disorder that reduces the body's production of hemoglobin. Low levels of hemoglobin lead to a shortage of mature red blood cells and a lack of oxygen in the body. Affected people have anemia, which can cause paleness, weakness, fatigue, and more serious complications. Severe beta-thalassemia is called thalassemia major or Cooleys anemia. Thalassemia intermedia is a less severe form. Beta-thalassemia is caused by mutations in the HBB gene and is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. People who have only one HBB gene mutation may have no symptoms or develop mild symptoms, and are said to have thalassemia minor. Treatment depends on the severity in each person and may include transfusions, folic acid supplementation, iron chelation, and/or bone marrow transplantation (the only definitive cure).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy ?
Answer: There is currently no effective treatment for PSP, although scientists are searching for better ways to manage the disease. In some patients the slowness, stiffness, and balance problems of PSP may respond to antiparkinsonian agents such as levodopa, or levodopa combined with anticholinergic agents, but the effect is usually temporary. The speech, vision, and swallowing difficulties usually do not respond to any drug treatment.. Another group of drugs that has been of some modest success in PSP are antidepressant medications. The most commonly used of these drugs are Prozac, Elavil, and Tofranil. The anti-PSP benefit of these drugs seems not to be related to their ability to relieve depression. Non-drug treatment for PSP can take many forms. Patients frequently use weighted walking aids because of their tendency to fall backward. Bifocals or special glasses called prisms are sometimes prescribed for PSP patients to remedy the difficulty of looking down. Formal physical therapy is of no proven benefit in PSP, but certain exercises can be done to keep the joints limber. A surgical procedure, a gastrostomy, may be necessary when there are swallowing disturbances. This surgery involves the placement of a tube through the skin of the abdomen into the stomach (intestine) for feeding purposes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder ?
Answer: Several components of the NIH support research on developmental disorders such as ADHD. Research programs of the NINDS, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) seek to address unanswered questions about the causes of ADHD, as well as to improve diagnosis and treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What causes Von Willebrand Disease ?
Answer: Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is almost always inherited. "Inherited" means that the disorder is passed from parents to children though genes. 
                
You can inherit type 1 or type 2 VWD if only one of your parents passes the gene on to you. You usually inherit type 3 VWD only if both of your parents pass the gene on to you. Your symptoms may be different from your parents' symptoms.
                
Some people have the genes for the disorder but don't have symptoms. However, they still can pass the genes on to their children.
                
Some people get VWD later in life as a result of other medical conditions. This type of VWD is called acquired von Willebrand syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is the outlook for Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:         - The stage of the cancer.    - The size of the tumor.    -  Whether there are B symptoms at diagnosis.    - The type of Hodgkin lymphoma.    - Certain features of the cancer cells.    - Whether there are too many white blood cells or too few red blood cells at the time of diagnosis.    - How well the tumor responds to initial treatment with chemotherapy.    - Whether the cancer is newly diagnosed or has recurred (come back).         The treatment options also depend on:         - The child's age and gender.    - The risk of long-term side effects.        Most children and adolescents with newly diagnosed Hodgkin lymphoma can be cured.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Anxiety Disorders ?
Answer: Clinical trials are part of clinical research and at the heart of all treatment advances. Clinical trials look at new ways to prevent, detect, or treat disease. The National Institute of Mental Health at NIH supports research studies on mental health and disorders. To learn how clinical trials work, see  Participating in Clinical Trials. To see NIH-funded studies currently recruiting participants in anxiety disorders, visit www.ClinicalTrials.gov  and type in "anxiety disorders." Clinical Trials.gov is the NIH/National Library of Medicine's registry of federally and privately funded clinical trials for all disease. To see personal stories of people who have volunteered for clinical trials, visit  NIH Clinical Trials Research and You.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is the outlook for Myotonia ?
Answer: Myotonia is a chronic disorder. Symptoms may improve later in life.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Aarskog-Scott syndrome ?
Answer: Aarskog-Scott syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects the development of many parts of the body. This condition mainly affects males, although females may have mild features of the syndrome.  People with Aarskog-Scott syndrome often have distinctive facial features, such as widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism), a small nose, a long area between the nose and mouth (philtrum), and a widow's peak hairline. They frequently have mild to moderate short stature during childhood, but their growth usually catches up during puberty. Hand abnormalities are common in this syndrome and include short fingers (brachydactyly), curved pinky fingers (fifth finger clinodactyly), webbing of the skin between some fingers (syndactyly), and a single crease across the palm. Some people with Aarskog-Scott syndrome are born with more serious abnormalities, such as heart defects or a cleft lip with or without an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate).  Most males with Aarskog-Scott syndrome have a shawl scrotum, in which the scrotum surrounds the penis. Less often, they have undescended testes (cryptorchidism) or a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia) or in the lower abdomen (inguinal hernia).  The intellectual development of people with Aarskog-Scott syndrome varies widely among affected individuals. Some may have mild learning and behavior problems, while others have normal intelligence. In rare cases, severe intellectual disability has been reported.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Lethal short limb skeletal dysplasia Al Gazali type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Lethal short limb skeletal dysplasia Al Gazali type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Lethal short limb skeletal dysplasia Al Gazali type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Atresia of the external auditory canal - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bilateral talipes equinovarus - Lethal skeletal dysplasia - Limb undergrowth - Macrocephaly - Mesomelia - Opacification of the corneal stroma - Platyspondyly - Shortening of all metacarpals - Shortening of all phalanges of fingers - Wide anterior fontanel - Wormian bones - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer begins in your cells, which are the building blocks of your body. Normally, your body forms new cells as you need them, replacing old cells that die. Sometimes this process goes wrong. New cells grow even when you don't need them, and old cells don't die when they should. These extra cells can form a mass called a tumor. Tumors can be benign or malignant. Benign tumors aren't cancer while malignant ones are. Cells from malignant tumors can invade nearby tissues. They can also break away and spread to other parts of the body.     Cancer is not just one disease but many diseases. There are more than 100 different types of cancer. Most cancers are named for where they start. For example, lung cancer starts in the lung, and breast cancer starts in the breast. The spread of cancer from one part of the body to another is called metastasis. Symptoms and treatment depend on the cancer type and how advanced it is. Most treatment plans may include surgery, radiation and/or chemotherapy. Some may involve hormone therapy, biologic therapy, or stem cell transplantation.     NIH: National Cancer Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Repetitive Motion Disorders ?
Answer: Treatment for RMDs usually includes reducing or stopping the motions that cause symptoms. Options include taking breaks to give the affected area time to rest, and adopting stretching and relaxation exercises. Applying ice to the affected area and using medications such as pain relievers, cortisone, and anti-inflammatory drugs can reduce pain and swelling. Splints may be able to relieve pressure on the muscles and nerves. Physical therapy may relieve the soreness and pain in the muscles and joints. In rare cases, surgery may be required to relieve symptoms and prevent permanent damage. Some employers have developed ergonomic programs to help workers adjust their pace of work and arrange office equipment to minimize problems.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is Frontal fibrosing alopecia inherited ?
Answer: Is frontal fibrosing alopecia inherited? Frontal fibrosing alopecia is not thought to be inherited in most cases. It rarely affects more than one person in a family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to neurofibromatosis type 2 ?
Answer: Mutations in the NF2 gene cause neurofibromatosis type 2. The NF2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called merlin (also known as schwannomin). This protein is produced in the nervous system, particularly in Schwann cells, which surround and insulate nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and spinal cord. Merlin acts as a tumor suppressor, which means that it keeps cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Although its exact function is unknown, this protein is likely also involved in controlling cell movement, cell shape, and communication between cells. Mutations in the NF2 gene lead to the production of a nonfunctional version of the merlin protein that cannot regulate the growth and division of cells. Research suggests that the loss of merlin allows cells, especially Schwann cells, to multiply too frequently and form the tumors characteristic of neurofibromatosis type 2.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Kidney Stones ?
Answer: A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in the kidney from substances in the urine. It may be as small as a grain of sand or as large as a pearl. Most kidney stones pass out of the body without help from a doctor. But sometimes a stone will not go away. It may get stuck in the urinary tract, block the flow of urine and cause great pain.     The following may be signs of kidney stones that need a doctor's help:       -  Extreme pain in your back or side that will not go away    -  Blood in your urine    -  Fever and chills    -  Vomiting    -  Urine that smells bad or looks cloudy    -  A burning feeling when you urinate       Your doctor will diagnose a kidney stone with urine, blood, and imaging tests.    If you have a stone that won't pass on its own, you may need treatment. It can be done with shock waves; with a scope inserted through the tube that carries urine out of the body, called the urethra; or with surgery.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the complications of Foodborne Illnesses ?
Answer: Foodborne illnesses may lead to dehydration, hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), and other complications. Acute foodborne illnesses may also lead to chronicor long lastinghealth problems.
                
Dehydration
                
When someone does not drink enough fluids to replace those that are lost through vomiting and diarrhea, dehydration can result. When dehydrated, the body lacks enough fluid and electrolytesminerals in salts, including sodium, potassium, and chlorideto function properly. Infants, children, older adults, and people with weak immune systems have the greatest risk of becoming dehydrated.
                
Signs of dehydration are
                
- excessive thirst  - infrequent urination  - dark-colored urine  - lethargy, dizziness, or faintness
                
Signs of dehydration in infants and young children are
                
- dry mouth and tongue  - lack of tears when crying  - no wet diapers for 3 hours or more  - high fever  - unusually cranky or drowsy behavior  - sunken eyes, cheeks, or soft spot in the skull
                
Also, when people are dehydrated, their skin does not flatten back to normal right away after being gently pinched and released.
                
Severe dehydration may require intravenous fluids and hospitalization. Untreated severe dehydration can cause serious health problems such as organ damage, shock, or comaa sleeplike state in which a person is not conscious.
                
HUS
                
Hemolytic uremic syndrome is a rare disease that mostly affects children younger than 10 years of age. HUS develops when E. coli bacteria lodged in the digestive tract make toxins that enter the bloodstream. The toxins start to destroy red blood cells, which help the blood to clot, and the lining of the blood vessels.
                
In the United States, E. coli O157:H7 infection is the most common cause of HUS, but infection with other strains of E. coli, other bacteria, and viruses may also cause HUS. A recent study found that about 6 percent of people with E. coli O157:H7 infections developed HUS. Children younger than age 5 have the highest risk, but females and people age 60 and older also have increased risk.3
                
Symptoms of E. coli O157:H7 infection include diarrhea, which may be bloody, and abdominal pain, often accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and fever. Up to a week after E. coli symptoms appear, symptoms of HUS may develop, including irritability, paleness, and decreased urination. HUS may lead to acute renal failure, which is a sudden and temporary loss of kidney function. HUS may also affect other organs and the central nervous system. Most people who develop HUS recover with treatment. Research shows that in the United States between 2000 and 2006, fewer than 5 percent of people who developed HUS died of the disorder. Older adults had the highest mortality rateabout one-third of people age 60 and older who developed HUS died.3
                
Studies have shown that some children who recover from HUS develop chronic complications, including kidney problems, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
                
Other Complications
                
Some foodborne illnesses lead to other serious complications. For example, C. botulinum and certain chemicals in fish and seafood can paralyze the muscles that control breathing. L. monocytogenes can cause spontaneous abortion or stillbirth in pregnant women.
                
Research suggests that acute foodborne illnesses may lead to chronic disorders, including
                
- reactive arthritis, a type of joint inflammation that usually affects the knees, ankles, or feet. Some people develop this disorder following foodborne illnesses caused by certain bacteria, including C. jejuni and Salmonella. Reactive arthritis usually lasts fewer than 6 months, but this condition may recur or become chronic arthritis.4  - irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), a disorder of unknown cause that is associated with abdominal pain, bloating, and diarrhea or constipation or both. Foodborne illnesses caused by bacteria increase the risk of developing IBS.5  - Guillain-Barr syndrome, a disorder characterized by muscle weakness or paralysis that begins in the lower body and progresses to the upper body. This syndrome may occur after foodborne illnesses caused by bacteria, most commonly C. jejuni. Most people recover in 6 to 12 months.6
                
A recent study found that adults who had recovered from E. coli O157:H7 infections had increased risks of high blood pressure, kidney problems, and cardiovascular disease.7
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Cardiocranial syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Cardiocranial syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cardiocranial syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Craniosynostosis 90% Dolichocephaly 90% External ear malformation 90% Hypertelorism 90% Laryngomalacia 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Short stature 90% Tracheomalacia 90% Trismus 90% Abnormal localization of kidney 50% Atria septal defect 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Exaggerated cupid's bow 50% Hypoplasia of penis 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Polyhydramnios 50% Ptosis 50% Tetralogy of Fallot 50% Vesicoureteral reflux 50% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% Abnormality of cardiovascular system morphology - Abnormality of the tracheobronchial system - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Growth delay - Intellectual disability - Micropenis - Microphallus - Sagittal craniosynostosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acrocyanosis 90% Autoimmunity 90% Dry skin 90% Hypopigmented skin patches 90% Chondrocalcinosis 50% Feeding difficulties in infancy 50% Mucosal telangiectasiae 50% Nausea and vomiting 50% Skin ulcer 50% Telangiectasia of the skin 50% Camptodactyly of toe 7.5% Pulmonary fibrosis 7.5% Pulmonary hypertension 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to ADCY5-related dyskinesia ?
Answer: As its name suggests, ADCY5-related dyskinesia is caused by mutations in the ADCY5 gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called adenylate cyclase 5. This enzyme helps convert a molecule called adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to another molecule called cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). ATP is a molecule that supplies energy for cells' activities, including muscle contraction, and cAMP is involved in signaling for many cellular functions. Some ADCY5 gene mutations that cause ADCY5-related dyskinesia are thought to increase adenylate cyclase 5 enzyme activity and the level of cAMP within cells. Others prevent production of adenylate cyclase 5. It is unclear how either type of mutation leads to the abnormal movements that occur in this disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Citrullinemia type I ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Citrullinemia type I? Citrullinemia type I presents as a clinical spectrum that includes an acute neonatal form, a milder late-onset form, a form without symptoms and/or hyperammonemia, and a form in which women have onset of severe symptoms during pregnancy or post partum. Infants with the acute neonatal form typically appear normal at birth, but as ammonia builds up in the body they become progressively lethargic, feed poorly, vomit, and develop signs of increased intracranial pressure, which can lead to seizures and loss of consciousness. Less commonly, a milder form of citrullinemia type I can develop later in childhood or adulthood. This later-onset form is associated with intense headaches, partial loss of vision, slurred speech, problems with balance and muscle coordination (ataxia), behavior problems, and lethargy. Episodes of high blood ammonia often happen after going without food for long periods of time, during illness or infection or after high-protein meals. Some people with gene mutations that cause citrullinemia type I never experience signs and symptoms of the disorder and are only found to be affected after a brother or sister is diagnosed. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Citrullinemia type I. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Stroke 5% Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebral edema - Coma - Episodic ammonia intoxication - Failure to thrive - Hepatomegaly - Hyperammonemia - Hyperglutaminemia - Hypoargininemia - Intellectual disability - Irritability - Lethargy - Neonatal onset - Oroticaciduria - Phenotypic variability - Protein avoidance - Respiratory alkalosis - Seizures - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) 3-M syndrome ?
Answer: 3-M syndrome is a disorder that causes short stature (dwarfism), unusual facial features, and skeletal abnormalities. The name of this condition comes from the initials of three researchers who first identified it: Miller, McKusick, and Malvaux.  Individuals with 3-M syndrome grow extremely slowly before birth, and this slow growth continues throughout childhood and adolescence. They have low birth weight and length and remain much smaller than others in their family, growing to an adult height of approximately 120 centimeters to 130 centimeters (4 feet to 4 feet 6 inches). Affected individuals have a normally sized head that looks disproportionately large in comparison with their body. The head may be unusually long and narrow in shape (dolichocephalic).  In addition to short stature, people with 3-M syndrome have a triangle-shaped face with a broad, prominent forehead (frontal bossing) and a pointed chin; the middle of the face is less prominent (hypoplastic midface). They may have large ears, full eyebrows, an upturned nose with a fleshy tip, a long area between the nose and mouth (philtrum), a prominent mouth, and full lips.  Affected individuals may have a short, broad neck and chest with prominent shoulder blades and square shoulders. They may have abnormal spinal curvature such as a rounded upper back that also curves to the side (kyphoscoliosis) or exaggerated curvature of the lower back (hyperlordosis). People with 3-M syndrome may also have unusual curving of the fingers (clinodactyly), short fifth (pinky) fingers, prominent heels, and loose joints. Other skeletal abnormalities, such as unusually slender long bones in the arms and legs, tall, narrow spinal bones (vertebrae), or slightly delayed bone age may be apparent in x-ray images.  3-M syndrome can also affect other body systems. Males with 3-M syndrome may produce reduced amounts of sex hormones (hypogonadism) and occasionally have the urethra opening on the underside of the penis (hypospadias). People with this condition may be at increased risk of developing bulges in blood vessel walls (aneurysms) in the brain. Intelligence is unaffected by 3-M syndrome, and life expectancy is generally normal.  A variant of 3-M syndrome called Yakut short stature syndrome has been identified in an isolated population in Siberia. In addition to having most of the physical features characteristic of 3-M syndrome, people with this form of the disorder are often born with respiratory problems that can be life-threatening in infancy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Troyer syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Troyer syndrome? The signs and symptoms of Troyer syndrome can vary, and some people are more severely affected than others. Symptoms typically begin in early childhood. Most affected children have delays in walking and talking, followed by slow deterioration in both manner of walking (gait) and speech. Affected people have progressive muscle weakness and stiffness (spasticity) in the legs; muscle wasting in the hands and feet; paraplegia; leg contractures; learning disorders; and short stature. Mood swings and mood disorders, causing inappropriate euphoria and/or crying, are common. Other features can include drooling; exaggerated reflexes (hyperreflexia) in the legs; uncontrollable movements of the arms and legs (choreoathetosis); skeletal abnormalities; and a bending outward (valgus) of the knees. There is generally a slow, progressive decline in muscle and nerve function, and symptoms worsen over time. Most people need a wheelchair by their 50s or 60s. Affected people typically have a normal life expectancy. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Troyer syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Ankle clonus - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Brachydactyly syndrome - Camptodactyly - Cerebellar atrophy - Childhood onset - Clinodactyly - Difficulty walking - Distal amyotrophy - Drooling - Dysarthria - Dysmetria - Emotional lability - Hammertoe - Hyperextensible hand joints - Hyperplasia of midface - Hyperreflexia - Hypertelorism - Intellectual disability, mild - Knee clonus - Kyphoscoliosis - Lower limb muscle weakness - Motor delay - Pes cavus - Short foot - Short stature - Spastic gait - Spastic paraparesis - Spastic paraplegia - Upper limb spasticity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome ?
Answer: Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome is a condition that affects bone growth. It is characterized by skeletal abnormalities, hearing loss, and distinctive facial features. This condition has features that are similar to those of another skeletal disorder, otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia (OSMED).  Infants born with Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome are smaller than average because the bones in their arms and legs are unusually short. The thigh and upper arm bones are shaped like dumbbells, and the bones of the spine (vertebrae) may also be abnormally shaped. High-tone hearing loss occurs in some cases. Distinctive facial features include wide-set protruding eyes, a small, upturned nose with a flat bridge, and a small lower jaw. Some affected infants are born with an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate).  The skeletal features of Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome tend to diminish during childhood. Most adults with this condition are not unusually short, but do still retain the other features of Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Neurofibromatosis type 1 ?
Answer: What causes neurofibromatosis type 1? Neurofibromatosis type 1 is caused by changes (mutations) in the NF1 gene. NF1 is a tumor suppressor gene, which means that it encodes a protein that stops cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Mutations in NF1 result in an abnormal protein that is unable to carry out its normal role. This contributes to the development of the many different types of tumors found in neurofibromatosis type 1. People with neurofibromatosis type 1 are typically born with one mutated copy of the NF1 gene in each cell and are, therefore, genetically predisposed to develop the tumors associated with the condition. For a tumor to form, two copies of the NF1 gene must be altered. The mutation in the second copy of the NF1 gene is considered a somatic mutation because it occurs during a person's lifetime and is not inherited. Almost everyone who is born with one NF1 mutation acquires a second mutation in many cells and develops the tumors characteristic of neurofibromatosis type 1.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Laron syndrome ?
Answer: Laron syndrome is a rare form of short stature that results from the body's inability to use growth hormone, a substance produced by the brain's pituitary gland that helps promote growth. Affected individuals are close to normal size at birth, but they experience slow growth from early childhood that results in very short stature. If the condition is not treated, adult males typically reach a maximum height of about 4.5 feet; adult females may be just over 4 feet tall.  Other features of untreated Laron syndrome include reduced muscle strength and endurance, low blood sugar levels (hypoglycemia) in infancy, small genitals and delayed puberty, hair that is thin and fragile, and dental abnormalities. Many affected individuals have a distinctive facial appearance, including a protruding forehead, a sunken bridge of the nose (saddle nose), and a blue tint to the whites of the eyes (blue sclerae). Affected individuals have short limbs compared to the size of their torso, as well as small hands and feet. Adults with this condition tend to develop obesity. However, the signs and symptoms of Laron syndrome vary, even among affected members of the same family.  Studies suggest that people with Laron syndrome have a significantly reduced risk of cancer and type 2 diabetes. Affected individuals appear to develop these common diseases much less frequently than their unaffected relatives, despite having obesity (a risk factor for both cancer and type 2 diabetes). However, people with Laron syndrome do not seem to have an increased lifespan compared with their unaffected relatives.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Restless legs syndrome ?
Answer: Restless legs syndrome is a neurological condition that causes an irresistible urge to move the legs. The movement is triggered by strange or uncomfortable feelings, which occur mostly while the affected person is sitting or lying down and are worse at night. Movement (i.e. kicking, stretching, rubbing, or pacing) makes the discomfort go away, at least temporarily. Many people with restless legs syndrome also experience uncontrollable, repetitive leg movements that occur while they are sleeping or while relaxed or drowsy. Researchers have described early-onset and late-onset forms of restless legs syndrome. The early-onset form begins before age 45 and progresses slowly. The late-onset form begins after age 45, and its signs and symptoms tend to worsen more rapidly. Restless legs syndrome likely results from a combination of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors, many of which are unknown. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Central core disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Central core disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Central core disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Muscular hypotonia 90% Myopathy 90% Malignant hyperthermia 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital hip dislocation - Fever - Flexion contracture - Generalized muscle weakness - Infantile onset - Kyphoscoliosis - Motor delay - Nemaline bodies - Neonatal hypotonia - Nonprogressive - Pes planus - Phenotypic variability - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Slow progression - Type 1 muscle fiber predominance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Blepharospasm ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Blepharospasm? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Blepharospasm. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Blepharospasm - Middle age onset - Sporadic - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Donnai-Barrow syndrome ?
Answer: Although its prevalence is unknown, Donnai-Barrow syndrome appears to be a rare disorder. A few dozen affected individuals have been reported in many regions of the world.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for warfarin resistance ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of warfarin resistance:  - American Society of Hematology: Antithrombotic Therapy  - MedlinePlus Drugs & Supplements: Warfarin  - PharmGKB   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of VLCAD deficiency:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Very Long-Chain Acyl-Coenzyme A Dehydrogenase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Very long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Newborn Screening Tests   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia? Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia is characterized by short stature, kidney disease, and a weakened immune system. In people with this condition, short stature is caused by flattened spinal bones (vertebrae), resulting in a shortened neck and trunk. Adult height is typically between 3 and 5 feet. Kidney (renal) disease often leads to life-threatening renal failure and end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Affected individuals also have a shortage of certain immune system cells called T cells. T cells identify foreign substances and defend the body against infection. A shortage of T cells causes a person to be more susceptible to illness. Other features frequently seen in people with this condition include an exaggerated curvature of the lower back (lordosis); darkened patches of skin (hyperpigmentation), typically on the chest and back; and a broad nasal bridge with a rounded tip of the nose. Less common signs and symptoms of Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia include an accumulation of fatty deposits and scar-like tissue in the lining of the arteries (atherosclerosis), reduced blood flow to the brain (cerebral ischemia), migraine-like headaches, an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism), decreased numbers of white blood cells (lymphopenia), underdeveloped hip bones (hypoplastic pelvis), abnormally small head size (microcephaly), a lack of sperm (azoospermia) in males, and irregular menstruation in females. In severe cases, many signs of Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia can be present at birth. People with mild cases of this disorder may not develop signs or symptoms until late childhood.   The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anemia 90% Cellular immunodeficiency 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Glomerulopathy 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Lymphopenia 90% Melanocytic nevus 90% Microdontia 90% Nephrotic syndrome 90% Proteinuria 90% Short neck 90% Thrombocytopenia 90% Cafe-au-lait spot 50% Abnormal immunoglobulin level - Abnormality of T cells - Arteriosclerosis - Astigmatism - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bulbous nose - Coarse hair - Disproportionate short-trunk short stature - Fine hair - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis - High pitched voice - Hypermelanotic macule - Hypertension - Hypoplasia of the capital femoral epiphysis - Lateral displacement of the femoral head - Lumbar hyperlordosis - Motor delay - Myopia - Neutropenia - Opacification of the corneal stroma - Osteopenia - Ovoid vertebral bodies - Platyspondyly - Protuberant abdomen - Recurrent infections - Renal insufficiency - Shallow acetabular fossae - Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia - Thoracic kyphosis - Thyroid-stimulating hormone excess - Transient ischemic attack - Waddling gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 ?
Answer: Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN1) is an inherited condition that causes tumors of the endocrine system (the body's network of hormone-producing glands). People affected by MEN1 typically develop tumors of the parathyroid gland, the pituitary gland, and the pancreas, although other glands may be involved as well. These tumors are often "functional" and secrete excess hormones, which can cause a variety of health problems. The most common signs and symptoms of MEN1 are caused by hyperparathyroidism (overactive parathyroid gland) and may include kidney stones; thinning of bones; nausea and vomiting; high blood pressure (hypertension); weakness; and fatigue. MEN1 is caused by changes (mutations) in the MEN1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Management for MEN1 usually includes regular screening to allow for early diagnosis and treatment of endocrine tumors.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Congenital pulmonary lymphangiectasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Congenital pulmonary lymphangiectasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Congenital pulmonary lymphangiectasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acrocyanosis 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Abnormality of the pericardium 50% Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 50% Congestive heart failure 50% Hydrops fetalis 50% Abnormality of the tricuspid valve 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Pulmonary hypertension 7.5% Splenomegaly 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bronchodysplasia - Chylothorax - Chylous ascites - Depressed nasal bridge - Edema of the lower limbs - Flat face - Hypertelorism - Malar flattening - Mild postnatal growth retardation - Nonimmune hydrops fetalis - Palpebral edema - Pectus excavatum - Pleural effusion - Polyhydramnios - Pulmonary lymphangiectasia - Recurrent respiratory infections - Variable expressivity - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Pulmonary Embolism? ?
Answer: Pulmonary embolism (PE) occurs equally in men and women. The risk increases with age. For every 10 years after age 60, the risk of having PE doubles.
                
Certain inherited conditions, such as factor V Leiden, increase the risk of blood clotting and PE.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
Your risk for PE is high if you have deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or a history of DVT. In DVT, blood clots form in the deep veins of the bodymost often in the legs. These clots can break free, travel through the bloodstream to the lungs, and block an artery.
                
Your risk for PE also is high if you've had the condition before.
                
Other Risk Factors
                
Other factors also can increase the risk for PE, such as:
                
Being bedridden or unable to move around much
                
Having surgery or breaking a bone (the risk goes up in the weeks following the surgery or injury)
                
Having certain diseases or conditions, such as a stroke, paralysis (an inability to move), chronic heart disease, or high blood pressure
                
Smoking
                
People who have recently been treated for cancer or who have a central venous catheter are more likely to develop DVT, which increases their risk for PE. A central venous catheter is a tube placed in a vein to allow easy access to the bloodstream for medical treatment.
                
Other risk factors for DVT include sitting for long periods (such as during long car or airplane rides), pregnancy and the 6-week period after pregnancy, and being overweight or obese. Women who take hormone therapy pills or birth control pills also are at increased risk for DVT.
                
The risk of developing blood clots increases as your number of risk factors increases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Warfarin sensitivity ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Warfarin sensitivity? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Warfarin sensitivity. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of blood and blood-forming tissues - Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Parasites - Scabies ?
Answer: Scabies is an infestation of the skin by the human itch mite (Sarcoptes scabiei var. hominis). The microscopic scabies mite burrows into the upper layer of the skin where it lives and lays its eggs. The most common symptoms of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies.
Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is frequent. Institutions such as nursing homes, extended-care facilities, and prisons are often sites of scabies outbreaks. Child care facilities also are a common site of scabies infestations.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the treatments for infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Glycogen storage disease type 7 ?
Answer: Glycogen storage disease type 7 (GSD7) is an inherited condition in which the body is unable to break down glycogen (a complex sugar) in the muscle cells. Because glycogen is an important source of energy, this can interfere with the normal functioning of muscle cells. The severity of the condition and the associated signs and symptoms vary, but may include muscle weakness and stiffness; painful muscle cramps; nausea and vomiting; and/or myoglobinuria (the presence of myoglobin in the urine) following moderate to strenuous exercise. Symptoms typically resolve with rest. GSD7 is most commonly diagnosed during childhood; however, some affected people may rarely develop symptoms during infancy or later in adulthood. Those who develop the condition during infancy may experience additional symptoms such as hypotonia (poor muscle tone), cardiomyopathy and breathing difficulties that often lead to a shortened lifespan (less than 1 year). This condition is caused by changes (mutations) in the PFKM gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. There is no specific treatment for GSD7; however, affected people are generally advised to avoid vigorous exercise and high-carbohydrate meals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency is a disorder characterized by a wide range of severity, with neurological problems in some individuals and no signs or symptoms in others.  In people with severe dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, the disorder becomes apparent in infancy. These affected individuals have neurological problems such as recurrent seizures (epilepsy), intellectual disability, a small head size (microcephaly), increased muscle tone (hypertonia), delayed development of motor skills such as walking, and autistic behaviors that affect communication and social interaction. Other affected individuals are asymptomatic, which means they do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. Individuals with asymptomatic dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency may be identified only by laboratory testing.  People with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, including those who otherwise exhibit no symptoms, are vulnerable to severe, potentially life-threatening toxic reactions to certain drugs called fluoropyrimidines that are used to treat cancer. Common examples of these drugs are 5-fluorouracil and capecitabine. These drugs are not broken down efficiently by people with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency and build up to toxic levels in the body (fluoropyrimidine toxicity). Severe inflammation and ulceration of the lining of the gastrointestinal tract (mucositis) may occur, which can lead to signs and symptoms including mouth sores, abdominal pain, bleeding, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Fluoropyrimidine toxicity may also lead to low numbers of white blood cells (neutropenia), which increases the risk of infections. It can also be associated with low numbers of platelets in the blood (thrombocytopenia), which impairs blood clotting and may lead to abnormal bleeding (hemorrhage). Redness, swelling, numbness, and peeling of the skin on the palms and soles (hand-foot syndrome); shortness of breath; and hair loss may also occur.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Hemifacial Spasm ?
Answer: Surgical treatment in the form of microvascular decompression, which relieves pressure on the facial nerve, will relieve hemifacial spasm in many cases. This intervention has significant potential side-effects, so risks and benefits have to be carefully balanced. Other treatments include injections of botulinum toxin into the affected areas, which is the most effective therapy and the only one used in most cases. Drug therapy is generally not effective.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy inherited?
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome ?
Answer: How might tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) be treated? While there is no proven treatment for TRAPS, non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may be used to relieve symptoms of fever, and corticosteroids may be used to reduce severity of symptoms in most people. However, these medications typically don't decrease the frequency of attacks. Etanercept, a TNF inhibitor, has been shown to be effective but its efficacy tends to wane over time. Standard doses of etanercept twice a week have been shown to decrease the frequency, duration, and severity of attacks in some people and it may also reverse or slow the progression of amyloidosis. More studies are needed to evaluate this medication for TRAPS. Additional information about the treatment of TRAPS can be viewed on Medscape's Web site.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) congenital contractural arachnodactyly ?
Answer: Congenital contractural arachnodactyly is a disorder that affects many parts of the body. People with this condition typically are tall with long limbs (dolichostenomelia) and long, slender fingers and toes (arachnodactyly). They often have permanently bent joints (contractures) that can restrict movement in their hips, knees, ankles, or elbows. Additional features of congenital contractural arachnodactyly include underdeveloped muscles, a rounded upper back that also curves to the side (kyphoscoliosis), permanently bent fingers and toes (camptodactyly), ears that look "crumpled," and a protruding chest (pectus carinatum). Rarely, people with congenital contractural arachnodactyly have heart defects such as an enlargement of the blood vessel that distributes blood from the heart to the rest of the body (aortic root dilatation) or a leak in one of the valves that control blood flow through the heart (mitral valve prolapse). The life expectancy of individuals with congenital contractural arachnodactyly varies depending on the severity of symptoms but is typically not shortened.  A rare, severe form of congenital contractural arachnodactyly involves both heart and digestive system abnormalities in addition to the skeletal features described above; individuals with this severe form of the condition usually do not live past infancy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Dermatomyositis ?
Answer: How is dermatomyositis treated? While there is no cure for dermatomyositis, the symptoms can be treated. Options include medication, physical therapy, exercise, heat therapy (including microwave and ultrasound), orthotics and assistive devices, and rest.  The standard treatment for dermatomyositis is a corticosteroid drug, given either in pill form or intravenously.  Immunosuppressant drugs, such as azathioprine and methotrexate, may reduce inflammation in people who do not respond well to prednisone.  Periodic treatment using intravenous immunoglobulin can also improve recovery.  Other immunosuppressive agents used to treat the inflammation associated with dermatomyositis include cyclosporine A, cyclophosphamide, and tacrolimus.  Physical therapy is usually recommended to prevent muscle atrophy and to regain muscle strength and range of motion.  Many individuals with dermatomyositis may need a topical ointment, such as topical corticosteroids, for their skin disorder.  They should wear a high-protection sunscreen and protective clothing.  Surgery may be required to remove calcium deposits that cause nerve pain and recurrent infections.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Histidinuria renal tubular defect ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Histidinuria renal tubular defect? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Histidinuria renal tubular defect. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aminoaciduria 90% Cerebral cortical atrophy 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Hypoglycemia 90% Hypoplastic toenails 90% Long philtrum 90% Macrotia 90% Sensorineural hearing impairment 90% Ventriculomegaly 90% Wide nasal bridge 90% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Generalized myoclonic seizures - Histidinuria - Impaired histidine renal tubular absorption - Intellectual disability - Rounded middle phalanx of finger - Short middle phalanx of finger - Smooth philtrum - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Cervical Cancer Screening
Answer: Summary : The cervix is the lower part of the uterus, the place where a baby grows during pregnancy. Cancer screening is looking for cancer before you have any symptoms. Cancer found early may be easier to treat.    Cervical cancer screening is usually part of a woman's health checkup. There are two types of tests: the Pap test and the HPV test. For both, the doctor or nurse collects cells from the surface of the cervix. With the Pap test, the lab checks the sample for cancer cells or abnormal cells that could become cancer later. With the HPV test, the lab checks for HPV infection. HPV is a virus that spreads through sexual contact. It can sometimes lead to cancer. If your screening tests are abnormal, your doctor may do more tests, such as a biopsy.    Cervical cancer screening has risks. The results can sometimes be wrong, and you may have unnecessary follow-up tests. There are also benefits. Screening has been shown to decrease the number of deaths from cervical cancer. You and your doctor should discuss your risk for cervical cancer, the pros and cons of the screening tests, at what age to start being screened, and how often to be screened.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How many people are affected by spondyloperipheral dysplasia ?
Answer: This condition is rare; only a few affected individuals have been reported worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: Your doctor will diagnose cardiomyopathy based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
                
Specialists Involved
                
Often, a cardiologist or pediatric cardiologist diagnoses and treats cardiomyopathy. A cardiologist specializes in diagnosing and treating heart diseases. A pediatric cardiologist is a cardiologist who treats children.
                
Medical and Family Histories
                
Your doctor will want to learn about your medical history. He or she will want to know what signs and symptoms you have and how long you've had them.
                
Your doctor also will want to know whether anyone in your family has had cardiomyopathy, heart failure, or sudden cardiac arrest.
                
Physical Exam
                
Your doctor will use a stethoscope to listen to your heart and lungs for sounds that may suggest cardiomyopathy. These sounds may even suggest a certain type of the disease.
                
For example, the loudness, timing, and location of a heart murmur may suggest obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. A "crackling" sound in the lungs may be a sign of heart failure. (Heart failure often develops in the later stages of cardiomyopathy.)
                
Physical signs also help your doctor diagnose cardiomyopathy. Swelling of the ankles, feet, legs, abdomen, or veins in your neck suggests fluid buildup, a sign of heart failure.
                
Your doctor may notice signs and symptoms of cardiomyopathy during a routine exam. For example, he or she may hear a heart murmur, or you may have abnormal test results.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
Your doctor may recommend one or more of the following tests to diagnose cardiomyopathy.
                
Blood Tests
                
During a blood test, a small amount of blood is taken from your body. It's often drawn from a vein in your arm using a needle. The procedure usually is quick and easy, although it may cause some short-term discomfort.
                
Blood tests give your doctor information about your heart and help rule out other conditions.
                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x ray takes pictures of the organs and structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. This test can show whether your heart is enlarged. A chest x ray also can show whether fluid is building up in your lungs.
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
An EKG is a simple test that records the heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast the heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through each part of the heart.
                
This test is used to detect and study many heart problems, such as heart attacks, arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats), and heart failure. EKG results also can suggest other disorders that affect heart function.
                
A standard EKG only records the heartbeat for a few seconds. It won't detect problems that don't happen during the test.
                
To diagnose heart problems that come and go, your doctor may have you wear a portable EKG monitor. The two most common types of portable EKGs are Holter and event monitors.
                
Holter and Event Monitors
                
Holter and event monitors are small, portable devices. They record your heart's electrical activity while you do your normal daily activities. A Holter monitor records the heart's electrical activity for a full 24- or 48-hour period.
                
An event monitor records your heart's electrical activity only at certain times while you're wearing it. For many event monitors, you push a button to start the monitor when you feel symptoms. Other event monitors start automatically when they sense abnormal heart rhythms.
                
Echocardiography
                
Echocardiography (echo) is a test that uses sound waves to create a moving picture of your heart. The picture shows how well your heart is working and its size and shape.
                
There are several types of echo, including stress echo. This test is done as part of a stress test (see below). Stress echo can show whether you have decreased blood flow to your heart, a sign of coronary heart disease.
                
Another type of echo is transesophageal (tranz-ih-sof-uh-JEE-ul) echo, or TEE. TEE provides a view of the back of the heart.
                
For this test, a sound wave wand is put on the end of a special tube. The tube is gently passed down your throat and into your esophagus (the passage leading from your mouth to your stomach). Because this passage is right behind the heart, TEE can create detailed pictures of the heart's structures.
                
Before TEE, you're given medicine to help you relax, and your throat is sprayed with numbing medicine.
                
Stress Test
                
Some heart problems are easier to diagnose when your heart is working hard and beating fast. During stress testing, you exercise (or are given medicine if you're unable to exercise) to make your heart work hard and beat fast while heart tests are done.
                
These tests may include nuclear heart scanning, echo, and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning of the heart.
                
Diagnostic Procedures
                
You may have one or more medical procedures to confirm a diagnosis or to prepare for surgery (if surgery is planned). These procedures may include cardiac catheterization (KATH-e-ter-i-ZA-shun), coronary angiography (an-jee-OG-ra-fee), or myocardial (mi-o-KAR-de-al) biopsy.
                
Cardiac Catheterization
                
This procedure checks the pressure and blood flow in your heart's chambers. The procedure also allows your doctor to collect blood samples and look at your heart's arteries using x-ray imaging.
                
During cardiac catheterization, a long, thin, flexible tube called a catheter is put into a blood vessel in your arm, groin (upper thigh), or neck and threaded to your heart. This allows your doctor to study the inside of your arteries for blockages.
                
Coronary Angiography
                
This procedure often is done with cardiac catheterization. During the procedure, dye that can be seen on an x ray is injected into your coronary arteries. The dye lets your doctor study blood flow through your heart and blood vessels.
                
Dye also may be injected into your heart chambers. This allows your doctor to study the pumping function of your heart.
                
Myocardial Biopsy
                
For this procedure, your doctor removes a piece of your heart muscle. This can be done during cardiac catheterization. The heart muscle is studied under a microscope to see whether changes in cells have occurred. These changes may suggest cardiomyopathy.
                
Myocardial biopsy is useful for diagnosing some types of cardiomyopathy.
                
Genetic Testing
                
Some types of cardiomyopathy run in families. Thus, your doctor may suggest genetic testing to look for the disease in your parents, brothers and sisters, or other family members.
                
Genetic testing can show how the disease runs in families. It also can find out the chances of parents passing the genes for the disease on to their children.
                
Genetic testing also may be useful if your doctor thinks you have cardiomyopathy, but you don't yet have signs or symptoms. If the test shows you have the disease, your doctor can start treatment early, when it may work best.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) familial exudative vitreoretinopathy ?
Answer: Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy is a hereditary disorder that can cause progressive vision loss. This condition affects the retina, the specialized light-sensitive tissue that lines the back of the eye. The disorder prevents blood vessels from forming at the edges of the retina, which reduces the blood supply to this tissue.  The signs and symptoms of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy vary widely, even within the same family. In many affected individuals, the retinal abnormalities never cause any vision problems. In others, a reduction in the retina's blood supply causes the retina to fold, tear, or separate from the back of the eye (retinal detachment). This retinal damage can lead to vision loss and blindness. Other eye abnormalities are also possible, including eyes that do not look in the same direction (strabismus) and a visible whiteness (leukocoria) in the normally black pupil.  Some people with familial exudative vitreoretinopathy also have reduced bone mineral density, which weakens bones and increases the risk of fractures.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by adult-onset leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia ?
Answer: ALSP is thought to be a rare disorder, although the prevalence is unknown. Because it can be mistaken for other disorders with similar symptoms, ALSP may be underdiagnosed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Native American Health
Answer: Summary : Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from:       - Genetics    - Environmental factors    - Access to care    - Cultural factors        On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect Native Americans.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Mowat-Wilson syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mowat-Wilson syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mowat-Wilson syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Intellectual disability 100% Abnormality of the eyebrow 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Deeply set eye 90% External ear malformation 90% Frontal bossing 90% High forehead 90% Large earlobe 90% Microcephaly 90% Seizures 90% Aganglionic megacolon 62% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 50% Broad columella 50% Constipation 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Cupped ear 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Epicanthus 50% Esotropia 50% Fine hair 50% Hypertelorism 50% Iris coloboma 50% Low hanging columella 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Open mouth 50% Pointed chin 50% Prominent nasal tip 50% Ptosis 50% Short stature 50% Tapered finger 50% Uplifted earlobe 50% Wide nasal bridge 50% Agenesis of corpus callosum 42% Bifid scrotum 33% Generalized muscle hypertrophy 33% Hypospadias 33% Abnormal localization of kidney 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Cerebral cortical atrophy 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cleft upper lip 7.5% Deep plantar creases 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Hallux valgus 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Preaxial foot polydactyly 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Submucous cleft hard palate 7.5% Supernumerary nipple 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% Ventriculomegaly 7.5% Vesicoureteral reflux 7.5% Abdominal distention - Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Abnormality of the abdominal wall - Abnormality of the rib cage - Absent speech - Atria septal defect - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Broad eyebrow - Delayed eruption of teeth - Drooling - Happy demeanor - Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum - Intellectual disability, moderate - Motor delay - Pectus carinatum - Pectus excavatum - Pulmonary artery sling - Pulmonary artery stenosis - Pulmonic stenosis - Vomiting - Widely spaced teeth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Urinary Incontinence ?
Answer: The first step in treating urinary incontinence is to see a health care provider. He or she will give you a physical exam and take your medical history. The provider will ask about your symptoms and the medicines you use. He or she will want to know if you have been sick recently or have had surgery. Your provider also may do a number of tests. These might include - urine tests  - tests that measure how well you empty your bladder, usually by ultrasound. urine tests tests that measure how well you empty your bladder, usually by ultrasound. In addition, your health care provider may ask you to keep a daily diary of when you urinate and when you leak urine. Your family provider may also send you to a urologist or urogynecologist, a doctor who specializes in urinary tract problems. Learn more about how urinary incontinence is diagnosed in  men and  women.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Juvenile idiopathic arthritis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Juvenile idiopathic arthritis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Juvenile idiopathic arthritis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of temperature regulation 90% Arthralgia 90% Arthritis 90% Autoimmunity 90% Joint swelling 90% Skin rash 90% Mediastinal lymphadenopathy 50% Abdominal pain 7.5% Abnormality of the pericardium 7.5% Abnormality of the pleura 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Splenomegaly 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the complications of Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: The complications of kidney dysplasia can include
                
- hydronephrosis of the working kidney. A baby with kidney dysplasia in only one kidney might have other urinary tract defects. When other defects in the urinary tract block the flow of urine, the urine backs up and causes the kidneys and ureters to swell, a condition called hydronephrosis. If left untreated, hydronephrosis can damage the working kidney and reduce its ability to filter blood. Kidney damage may lead to chronic kidney disease (CKD) and kidney failure.  - a urinary tract infection (UTI). A urine blockage may increase a babys chance of developing a UTI. Recurring UTIs can also lead to kidney damage.  - high blood pressure.  - a slightly increased chance of developing kidney cancer.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, urine blockage in newbornsand UTIs in children.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Clostridium Difficile Infections ?
Answer: Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) is a bacterium that causes diarrhea and more serious intestinal conditions such as colitis. Symptoms include       -  Watery diarrhea (at least three bowel movements per day for two or more days)    -  Fever    -  Loss of appetite    -  Nausea    -  Abdominal pain or tenderness       You might get C. difficile disease if you have an illness that requires prolonged use of antibiotics. Increasingly, the disease can also be spread in the hospital. The elderly are also at risk. Treatment is with antibiotics.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Who is at risk for Foodborne Illnesses? ?
Answer: Anyone can get a foodborne illness. However, some people are more likely to develop foodborne illnesses than others, including
                
- infants and children  - pregnant women and their fetuses  - older adults  - people with weak immune systems
                
These groups also have a greater risk of developing severe symptoms or complications of foodborne illnesses.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Bell's palsy ?
Answer: What are the symptoms of Bell's palsy?
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Herpes Zoster Oticus ?
Answer: Herpes zoster oticus, also called Ramsay Hunt Syndrome or Ramsay Hunt Syndrome type II, is a common complication of shingles. Shingles is an infection caused by the varicella-zoster virus, which is the virus that causes chickenpox. Shingles occurs in people who have had chickenpox and represents a reactivation of the dormant varicella-zoster virus. Herpes zoster oticus, which is caused by the spread of the varicella-zoster virus to facial nerves, is characterized by intense ear pain, a rash around the ear, mouth, face, neck, and scalp, and paralysis of facial nerves. Other symptoms may include hearing loss, vertigo (abnormal sensation of movement), and tinnitus (abnormal sounds). Taste loss in the tongue and dry mouth and eyes may also occur.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) autoimmune Addison disease ?
Answer: Autoimmune Addison disease affects the function of the adrenal glands, which are small hormone-producing glands located on top of each kidney. It is classified as an autoimmune disorder because it results from a malfunctioning immune system that attacks the adrenal glands. As a result, the production of several hormones is disrupted, which affects many body systems.  The signs and symptoms of autoimmune Addison disease can begin at any time, although they most commonly begin between ages 30 and 50. Common features of this condition include extreme tiredness (fatigue), nausea, decreased appetite, and weight loss. In addition, many affected individuals have low blood pressure (hypotension), which can lead to dizziness when standing up quickly; muscle cramps; and a craving for salty foods. A characteristic feature of autoimmune Addison disease is abnormally dark areas of skin (hyperpigmentation), especially in regions that experience a lot of friction, such as the armpits, elbows, knuckles, and palm creases. The lips and the inside lining of the mouth can also be unusually dark. Because of an imbalance of hormones involved in development of sexual characteristics, women with this condition may lose their underarm and pubic hair.  Other signs and symptoms of autoimmune Addison disease include low levels of sugar (hypoglycemia) and sodium (hyponatremia) and high levels of potassium (hyperkalemia) in the blood. Affected individuals may also have a shortage of red blood cells (anemia) and an increase in the number of white blood cells (lymphocytosis), particularly those known as eosinophils (eosinophilia).  Autoimmune Addison disease can lead to a life-threatening adrenal crisis, characterized by vomiting, abdominal pain, back or leg cramps, and severe hypotension leading to shock. The adrenal crisis is often triggered by a stressor, such as surgery, trauma, or infection.  Individuals with autoimmune Addison disease or their family members often have another autoimmune disorder, most commonly autoimmune thyroid disease or type 1 diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Majeed syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Majeed syndrome inherited? Majeed syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene. Although carriers typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition, some parents of children with Majeed syndrome have had an inflammatory skin disorder called psoriasis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Eating Disorders ?
Answer: Eating disorders are serious behavior problems. They can include severe overeating or not consuming enough food to stay healthy. They also involve extreme concern about your shape or weight.    Types of eating disorders include       - Anorexia nervosa, in which you become too thin, but you don't eat enough because you think you are fat     - Bulimia nervosa, which involves periods of overeating followed by purging, sometimes through self-induced vomiting or using laxatives    - Binge-eating, which is out-of-control eating       Women are more likely than men to have eating disorders. They usually start in the teenage years and often occur along with depression, anxiety disorders, and substance abuse.    Eating disorders can lead to heart and kidney problems and even death. Getting help early is important. Treatment involves monitoring, talk therapy, nutritional counseling, and sometimes medicines.     NIH: National Institute of Mental Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Koolen-de Vries syndrome ?
Answer: Koolen-de Vries syndrome is caused by genetic changes that eliminate the function of one copy of the KANSL1 gene in each cell. Most affected individuals are missing a small amount of genetic material, including the KANSL1 gene, from one copy of chromosome 17. This type of genetic abnormality is called a microdeletion. A small number of individuals with Koolen-de Vries syndrome do not have a chromosome 17 microdeletion but instead have a mutation within the KANSL1 gene that causes one copy of the gene to be nonfunctional.  The microdeletion that causes Koolen-de Vries syndrome occurs on the long (q) arm of chromosome 17 at a location designated q21.31. While the exact size of the deletion varies among affected individuals, most are missing a sequence of about 500,000 DNA building blocks (base pairs) containing several genes. However, because individuals with KANSL1 gene mutations have the same signs and symptoms as those with the microdeletion, researchers have concluded that the loss of this gene accounts for the features of this disorder.  The KANSL1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that helps regulate gene activity (expression) by modifying chromatin. Chromatin is the complex of DNA and protein that packages DNA into chromosomes. The protein produced from the KANSL1 gene is found in most organs and tissues of the body before birth and throughout life. By its involvement in controlling the activity of other genes, this protein plays an important role in the development and function of many parts of the body. Loss of one copy of this gene impairs normal development and function, but the relationship of KANSL1 gene loss to the specific signs and symptoms of Koolen-de Vries syndrome is unclear.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is galactosemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ?
Answer: Generally, intensive care is needed. The neuroleptic or antipsychotic drug is discontinued, and the fever is treated aggressively. A muscle relaxant may be prescribed. Dopaminergic drugs, such as a dopamine agonist, have been reported to be useful.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Prosopagnosia, hereditary ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Prosopagnosia, hereditary? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Prosopagnosia, hereditary. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Prosopagnosia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy? The seizures that occur in people with autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) usually occur at night while sleeping, but some affected people also have seizures during the day. The seizures tend to occur in clusters, with each one lasting from a few seconds to a few minutes. In some people, seizures are mild and only cause a person to wake from sleep. In others, severe episodes can cause sudden, dramatic muscle spasms, wandering around, and/or crying out or making other sounds. Episodes of seizures tend to become less frequent and more mild as an affected person ages. Some people with ADNFLE experience aura, which may cause neurological symptoms such as tingling, shivering, a sense of fear, dizziness, and/or a feeling of falling or being pushed. Feelings of breathlessness, hyperventilation, and choking have also been reported. Most people with ADNFLE are intellectually normal. Psychiatric disorders, behavioral problems and intellectual disability have been described in some people with ADNFLE, but it is unclear if these features are directly related to the condition. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Intellectual disability 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Behavioral abnormality - Focal seizures - Incomplete penetrance - Juvenile onset - Seizures - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Microcephaly, holoprosencephaly, and intrauterine growth retardation ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Microcephaly, holoprosencephaly, and intrauterine growth retardation? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Microcephaly, holoprosencephaly, and intrauterine growth retardation. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anterior segment dysgenesis - Atresia of the external auditory canal - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Convex nasal ridge - Hypertelorism - Intrauterine growth retardation - Macrotia - Microcephaly - Narrow mouth - Retrognathia - Semilobar holoprosencephaly - Strabismus - Telecanthus - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Spinocerebellar ataxia 2 ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for spinocerebellar ataxia 2? Yes. Molecular genetic testing (analysis of DNA) is needed for a diagnosis of spinocerebellar ataxia 2 (SCA2). This testing detects abnormal CAG trinucleotide repeat expansions in the ATXN2 gene. Affected people (or people who will later develop symptoms of SCA2) have a copy of the ATXN2 gene that has 33 or more CAG repeats. This testing detects nearly 100% of cases of SCA2. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) provides information about the labs that offer genetic testing for SCA2. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Therefore, patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Palmoplantar keratoderma, epidermolytic ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Palmoplantar keratoderma, epidermolytic? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Palmoplantar keratoderma, epidermolytic. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Palmoplantar keratoderma 90% Verrucae 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Eczema 50% Hyperhidrosis 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Increased IgE level - Localized epidermolytic hyperkeratosis - Palmoplantar hyperkeratosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) spinocerebellar ataxia type 36 ?
Answer: Spinocerebellar ataxia type 36 (SCA36) is a condition characterized by progressive problems with movement that typically begin in mid-adulthood. People with this condition initially experience problems with coordination and balance (ataxia). Affected individuals often have exaggerated reflexes (hyperreflexia) and problems with speech (dysarthria). They also usually develop muscle twitches (fasciculations) of the tongue and over time, the muscles in the tongue waste away (atrophy). These tongue problems can cause difficulties swallowing liquids. As the condition progresses, individuals with SCA36 develop muscle atrophy in the legs, forearms, and hands. Another common feature of SCA36 is the atrophy of specialized nerve cells that control muscle movement (motor neurons), which can contribute to the tongue and limb muscle atrophy in affected individuals.  Some people with SCA36 have abnormalities of the eye muscles, which can lead to involuntary eye movements (nystagmus), rapid eye movements (saccades), trouble moving the eyes side-to-side (oculomotor apraxia), and droopy eyelids (ptosis). Sensorineural hearing loss, which is hearing loss caused by changes in the inner ear, may also occur in people with SCA36.  Brain imaging of people with SCA36 shows progressive atrophy of various parts of the brain, particularly within the cerebellum, which is the area of the brain involved in coordinating movements. Over time, the loss of cells in the cerebellum causes the movement problems characteristic of SCA36. In older affected individuals, the frontal lobes of the brain may show atrophy resulting in loss of executive function, which is the ability to plan and implement actions and develop problem-solving strategies.  Signs and symptoms of SCA36 typically begin in a person's forties or fifties but can appear anytime during adulthood. People with SCA36 have a normal lifespan and are usually mobile for 15 to 20 years after they are diagnosed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Generalized pustular psoriasis ?
Answer: Generalized pustular psoriasis is a severe inflammatory skin condition that can be life-threatening. Affected people develop episodes of red and tender skin with widespread pustules throughout their body. This is generally accompanied by fever, chills, headache, rapid pulse rate, loss of appetite, nausea and muscle weakness. The condition generally resolves within days or weeks; however, relapses are common. Some cases of generalized pustular psoriasis are caused by changes (mutations) in the IL36RN gene and are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Possible triggers for sporadic forms of the condition include withdrawal from corticosteroids, exposure to certain medications, and/or infection; however, in many cases, the underlying cause is unknown. Generalized pustular psoriasis can be life threatening, so hospitalization and a specialist's care is usually required. Affected areas are treated with topical (on the skin) compresses with emollients and/or steroid creams. Certain medications may also be recommended to manage non-skin-related symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Dietary Supplements
Answer: Summary : Dietary supplements are vitamins, minerals, herbs, and many other products. They can come as pills, capsules, powders, drinks, and energy bars. Supplements do not have to go through the testing that drugs do.    Some supplements can play an important role in health. For example, calcium and vitamin D are important for keeping bones strong. Pregnant women can take the vitamin folic acid to prevent certain birth defects in their babies.    To take a supplement as safely as possible       - Tell your health care provider about any dietary supplements you use    - Do not take a bigger dose than the label recommends    - Check with your health care provider about the supplements you take if you are going to have any type of surgery    - Read trustworthy information about the supplement       NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is Congenital contractural arachnodactyly inherited ?
Answer: How is congenital contractural arachnodactyly inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type inherited ?
Answer: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type inherited? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by glucose phosphate isomerase deficiency ?
Answer: GPI deficiency is a rare cause of hemolytic anemia; its prevalence is unknown. About 50 cases have been described in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by autosomal dominant partial epilepsy with auditory features ?
Answer: This condition appears to be uncommon, although its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Fine-Lubinsky syndrome ?
Answer: Fine-Lubinsky syndrome (FLS) is a very rare syndrome that affects various parts of the body. Signs and symptoms can vary and may include brachycephaly or plagiocephaly; structural brain abnormalities; abnormal EEG; intellectual disability; deafness; eye conditions (cataracts or glaucoma); distinctive facial features; and body asymmetry. The underlying cause of FLS remains unknown. Almost all cases have been sporadic (occurring in people with no family history of FLS) with the exception of 2 affected siblings, suggesting it was inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by piebaldism ?
Answer: The prevalence of piebaldism is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Perry syndrome ?
Answer: Perry syndrome is a progressive brain disease that is characterized by four major features: a pattern of movement abnormalities known as parkinsonism, psychiatric changes, weight loss, and abnormally slow breathing (hypoventilation). These signs and symptoms typically appear in a person's forties or fifties.  Parkinsonism and psychiatric changes are usually the earliest features of Perry syndrome. Signs of parkinsonism include unusually slow movements (bradykinesia), stiffness, and tremors. These movement abnormalities are often accompanied by changes in personality and behavior. The most frequent psychiatric changes that occur in people with Perry syndrome include depression, a general loss of interest and enthusiasm (apathy), withdrawal from friends and family, and suicidal thoughts. Many affected individuals also experience significant, unexplained weight loss early in the disease.  Hypoventilation is a later feature of Perry syndrome. Abnormally slow breathing most often occurs at night, causing affected individuals to wake up frequently. As the disease worsens, hypoventilation can result in a life-threatening lack of oxygen and respiratory failure.  People with Perry syndrome typically survive for about 5 years after signs and symptoms first appear. Most affected individuals ultimately die of respiratory failure or pneumonia. Suicide is another cause of death in this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Pol III-related leukodystrophy ?
Answer: Pol III-related leukodystrophy is a disorder that affects the nervous system and other parts of the body. Leukodystrophies are conditions that involve abnormalities of the nervous system's white matter, which consists of nerve fibers covered by a fatty substance called myelin. Myelin insulates nerve fibers and promotes the rapid transmission of nerve impulses.  Pol III-related leukodystrophy is a hypomyelinating disease, which means that the nervous system of affected individuals has a reduced ability to form myelin. Hypomyelination underlies most of the neurological problems associated with Pol III-related leukodystrophy. A small number of people with this disorder also have a loss of nerve cells in a part of the brain involved in coordinating movements (cerebellar atrophy) and underdevelopment (hypoplasia) of tissue that connects the left and right halves of the brain (the corpus callosum). These brain abnormalities likely contribute to the neurological problems in affected individuals.  People with Pol III-related leukodystrophy usually have intellectual disability ranging from mild to severe, which gradually worsens over time. Some affected individuals have normal intelligence in early childhood but develop mild intellectual disability during the course of the disease.  Difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia), which begins in childhood and slowly worsens over time, is a characteristic feature of Pol III-related leukodystrophy. Affected children typically have delayed development of motor skills such as walking. Their gait is unstable, and they usually walk with their feet wide apart for balance. Affected individuals may eventually need to use a walker or wheelchair. Involuntary rhythmic shaking (tremor) of the arms and hands may occur in this disorder. In some cases the tremor occurs mainly during movement (intentional tremor); other affected individuals experience the tremor both during movement and at rest.  Development of the teeth (dentition) is often abnormal in Pol III-related leukodystrophy, resulting in the absence of some teeth (known as hypodontia or oligodontia). Some affected infants are born with a few teeth (natal teeth), which fall out during the first weeks of life. The primary (deciduous) teeth appear later than usual, beginning at about age 2. In Pol III-related leukodystrophy, the teeth may not appear in the usual sequence, in which front teeth (incisors) appear before back teeth (molars). Instead, molars often appear first, with incisors appearing later or not at all. Permanent teeth are also delayed, and may not appear until adolescence. The teeth may also be unusually shaped.  Some individuals with Pol III-related leukodystrophy have excessive salivation and difficulty chewing or swallowing (dysphagia), which can lead to choking. They may also have speech impairment (dysarthria). People with Pol III-related leukodystrophy often have abnormalities in eye movement, such as progressive vertical gaze palsy, which is restricted up-and-down eye movement that worsens over time. Nearsightedness is common in affected individuals, and clouding of the lens of the eyes (cataracts) has also been reported. Deterioration (atrophy) of the nerves that carry information from the eyes to the brain (the optic nerves) and seizures may also occur in this disorder.  Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, which is a condition caused by reduced production of hormones that direct sexual development, may occur in Pol III-related leukodystrophy. Affected individuals have delayed development of the typical signs of puberty, such as the growth of body hair.  People with Pol III-related leukodystrophy may have different combinations of its signs and symptoms. These varied combinations of clinical features were originally described as separate disorders. Affected individuals may be diagnosed with ataxia, delayed dentition, and hypomyelination (ADDH); hypomyelination, hypodontia, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (4H syndrome); tremor-ataxia with central hypomyelination (TACH); leukodystrophy with oligodontia (LO); or hypomyelination with cerebellar atrophy and hypoplasia of the corpus callosum (HCAHC). Because these disorders were later found to have the same genetic cause, researchers now group them as variations of the single condition Pol III-related leukodystrophy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Cystic Fibrosis ?
Answer: A defect in the CFTR gene causes cystic fibrosis (CF). This gene makes a protein that controls the movement of salt and water in and out of your body's cells. In people who have CF, the gene makes a protein that doesn't work well. This causes thick, sticky mucus and very salty sweat.
                
Research suggests that the CFTR protein also affects the body in other ways. This may help explain other symptoms and complications of CF.
                
More than a thousand known defects can affect the CFTR gene. The type of defect you or your child has may affect the severity of CF. Other genes also may play a role in the severity of the disease.
                
How Is Cystic Fibrosis Inherited?
                
Every person inherits two CFTR genesone from each parent. Children who inherit a faulty CFTR gene from each parent will have CF.
                
Children who inherit one faulty CFTR gene and one normal CFTR gene are "CF carriers." CF carriers usually have no symptoms of CF and live normal lives. However, they can pass the faulty CFTR gene to their children.
                
The image below shows how two parents who are both CF carriers can pass the faulty CFTR gene to their children.
                
Example of an Inheritance Pattern for Cystic Fibrosis
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Vasculitis Syndromes of the Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems ?
Answer: Treatment for a vasculitis syndrome depends upon the specific diagnosis, which can be difficult, as some diseases have similar symptoms of vasculitis. Most of the syndromes respond well to steroid drugs, such as prednisolone. Some may also require treatment with an immunosuppressive drug, such as cyclophosphamide. Aneurysms involved with vasculitis can be treated surgfically.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How to diagnose Graves' Disease ?
Answer: Health care providers can sometimes diagnose Graves disease based only on a physical examination and a medical history. Blood tests and other diagnostic tests, such as the following, then confirm the diagnosis.
                
TSH test. The ultrasensitive TSH test is usually the first test performed. This test detects even tiny amounts of TSH in the blood and is the most accurate measure of thyroid activity available.
                
T3 and T4 test. Another blood test used to diagnose Graves disease measures T3 and T4 levels. In making a diagnosis, health care providers look for below-normal levels of TSH, normal to elevated levels of T4, and elevated levels of T3.
                
Because the combination of low TSH and high T3 and T4 can occur with other thyroid problems, health care providers may order other tests to finalize the diagnosis. The following two tests use small, safe doses of radioactive iodine because the thyroid uses iodine to make thyroid hormone.
                
Radioactive iodine uptake test. This test measures the amount of iodine the thyroid collects from the bloodstream. High levels of iodine uptake can indicate Graves disease.
                
Thyroid scan. This scan shows how and where iodine is distributed in the thyroid. With Graves disease the entire thyroid is involved, so the iodine shows up throughout the gland. Other causes of hyperthyroidism such as nodulessmall lumps in the glandshow a different pattern of iodine distribution.
                
TSI test. Health care providers may also recommend the TSI test, although this test usually isnt necessary to diagnose Graves disease. This test, also called a TSH antibody test, measures the level of TSI in the blood. Most people with Graves disease have this antibody, but people whose hyperthyroidism is caused by other conditions do not.
                
More information about testing for thyroid problems is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Thyroid Tests.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Cornelia de Lange syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Cornelia de Lange syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Cornelia de Lange Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: De Lange syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Autism  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Microcephaly   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is familial dilated cardiomyopathy inherited ?
Answer: Familial dilated cardiomyopathy has different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved.  In 80 to 90 percent of cases, familial dilated cardiomyopathy is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. However, some people who inherit the altered gene never develop features of familial dilated cardiomyopathy. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In rare instances, this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In other rare cases, this condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. In these cases, the gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell increases the risk of developing heart disease, but females with such a mutation may not develop familial dilated cardiomyopathy. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes familial dilated cardiomyopathy. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is familial dysautonomia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Dentures ?
Answer: Dentures are false teeth made to replace teeth you have lost. Dentures can be complete or partial. Complete dentures cover your entire upper or lower jaw. Partials replace one or a few teeth.    Advances in dentistry have made many improvements in dentures. They are more natural looking and comfortable than they used to be. But they still may feel strange at first. In the beginning, your dentist may want to see you often to make sure the dentures fit. Over time, your mouth will change and your dentures may need to be adjusted or replaced. Be sure to let your dentist handle these adjustments.    Speaking and eating may feel different with dentures. Be careful when wearing dentures because they may make it harder for you to feel hot foods and liquids. Also, you may not notice biting on a bone from your food.    NIH: National Institute on Aging
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Spondylocostal dysostosis 3 ?
Answer: Spondylocostal dysostosis is a group of conditions characterized by abnormal development of the bones in the spine and ribs. In the spine, the vertebrae are misshapen and fused. Many people with this condition have an abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis). The ribs may be fused together or missing. These bone malformations lead to short, rigid necks and short midsections. Infants with spondylocostal dysostosis have small, narrow chests that cannot fully expand. This can lead to life-threatening breathing problems. Males with this condition are at an increased risk for inguinal hernia, where the diaphragm is pushed down, causing the abdomen to bulge out. There are several types of spondylocostal dysostosis. These types have similar features and are distinguished by their genetic cause and how they are inherited.  Spondylocostal dysostosis 3 is caused by mutations in the LFNG gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include respiratory support and surgery to correct inguinal hernia and scoliosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Microphthalmia syndromic 6 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Microphthalmia syndromic 6? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Microphthalmia syndromic 6. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 90% Microphthalmia 90% Cataract 50% Chorioretinal coloboma 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Iris coloboma 50% Microcornea 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 7.5% Abnormality of the hypothalamus-pituitary axis 7.5% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% Abnormality of the palpebral fissures 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Myopia 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Postaxial foot polydactyly 7.5% Proximal placement of thumb 7.5% Sclerocornea 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Sensorineural hearing impairment 7.5% Myopia 3/3 Anophthalmia 9/10 Blindness 8/11 Coloboma 3/5 High palate 3/6 Microcephaly 3/6 Sclerocornea 2/5 Absent speech 2/6 Anterior hypopituitarism 2/6 Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 3/9 Cryptorchidism 2/6 Failure to thrive 2/6 Hearing impairment 2/6 Microcornea 1/3 Muscular hypotonia 2/6 Nystagmus 1/3 Orbital cyst 1/3 Retinal dystrophy 1/3 Retrognathia 2/6 Ventriculomegaly 3/9 Cerebral cortical atrophy 2/9 Hypothyroidism 2/9 Inferior vermis hypoplasia 2/9 Female hypogonadism 1/5 Preaxial hand polydactyly 2/11 Adrenal hypoplasia 1/6 Bifid scrotum 1/6 Brachycephaly 1/6 Cleft palate 1/6 Hypospadias 1/6 Microglossia 1/6 Micropenis 1/6 Renal hypoplasia 1/6 Small sella turcica 1/6 Cerebellar hypoplasia 1/9 Plagiocephaly 1/9 Abnormality of the cervical spine 1/10 Facial asymmetry 1/10 Lambdoidal craniosynostosis 1/10 Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 1/11 Finger syndactyly 1/11 Flexion contracture of thumb 1/11 Low-set ears 1/11 Posteriorly rotated ears 1/11 Protruding ear 1/11 Short middle phalanx of finger 1/11 Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bifid uvula - Brachydactyly syndrome - Delayed CNS myelination - High forehead - Hypoplasia of midface - Macrotia - Malar flattening - Severe muscular hypotonia - Single transverse palmar crease - Small scrotum - Toe syndactyly - Uplifted earlobe - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteogenesis imperfecta type I ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteogenesis imperfecta type I? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteogenesis imperfecta type I. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Dentinogenesis imperfecta 5% Aortic dilatation - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Biconcave flattened vertebrae - Blue sclerae - Bruising susceptibility - Femoral bowing - Growth abnormality - Hearing impairment - Increased susceptibility to fractures - Joint hypermobility - Mitral valve prolapse - Osteopenia - Otosclerosis - Recurrent fractures - Thin skin - Wormian bones - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Lynch syndrome ?
Answer: Variations in the MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2, or EPCAM gene increase the risk of developing Lynch syndrome.  The MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 genes are involved in the repair of mistakes that occur when DNA is copied in preparation for cell division (a process called DNA replication). Mutations in any of these genes prevent the proper repair of DNA replication mistakes. As the abnormal cells continue to divide, the accumulated mistakes can lead to uncontrolled cell growth and possibly cancer.  Mutations in the EPCAM gene also lead to impaired DNA repair, although the gene is not itself involved in this process. The EPCAM gene lies next to the MSH2 gene on chromosome 2; certain EPCAM gene mutations cause the MSH2 gene to be turned off (inactivated), interrupting DNA repair and leading to accumulated DNA mistakes.  Although mutations in these genes predispose individuals to cancer, not all people who carry these mutations develop cancerous tumors.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Mowat-Wilson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Mowat-Wilson inherited? Mowat-Wilson syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of Mowat-Wilson syndrome result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia? ?
Answer: The more premature an infant is and the lower his or her birth weight, the greater the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD).
                
Most infants who develop BPD are born more than 10 weeks before their due dates, weigh less than 2 pounds (about 1,000 grams) at birth, and have breathing problems. Infections that occur before or shortly after birth also can contribute to BPD.
                
The number of babies who have BPD is higher now than in the past. This is because of advances in care that help more premature infants survive.
                
Many babies who develop BPD are born with serious respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). However, some babies who have mild RDS or don't have RDS also develop BPD. These babies often have very low birth weights and one or more other conditions, such as patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and sepsis.
                
PDA is a heart problem that occurs soon after birth in some babies. Sepsis is a serious bacterial infection in the bloodstream.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Norrie disease ?
Answer: Norrie disease is an inherited eye disorder that leads to blindness in male infants at birth or soon after birth. It causes abnormal development of the retina, the layer of sensory cells that detect light and color, with masses of immature retinal cells accumulating at the back of the eye. As a result, the pupils appear white when light is shone on them, a sign called leukocoria. The irises (colored portions of the eyes) or the entire eyeballs may shrink and deteriorate during the first months of life, and cataracts (cloudiness in the lens of the eye) may eventually develop.  About one third of individuals with Norrie disease develop progressive hearing loss, and more than half experience developmental delays in motor skills such as sitting up and walking. Other problems may include mild to moderate intellectual disability, often with psychosis, and abnormalities that can affect circulation, breathing, digestion, excretion, or reproduction.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Factor V Leiden thrombophilia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of factor V Leiden thrombophilia? Individuals affected by factor V Leiden thrombophilia have an increased risk of developing blood clots. The severity of factor V Leiden thrombophilia is extremely variable. Many individuals with the factor V Leiden allele never develop a blood clot. Although most individuals with factor V thrombophilia do not experience their first thrombotic event until adulthood, some have recurrent thromboembolism before age 30 years. The chance a person will develop a blood clot is affected by the number of factor V Leiden mutations, the presence of coexisting genetic abnormalities, and non-genetic risk factors.  Non-genetic risk factors include surgery, long periods of not moving (like sitting on a long airplane ride), birth control pills and other female hormones, childbirth within the last 6 months, and traumas or fractures. Individuals who inherit one copy of the factor V Leiden mutation have a fourfold to eightfold increase in the chance of developing a clot.  Homozygotes (people who inherit two factor V Leiden mutations) may have up to 80 times the usual risk of developing a blood clot. Considering that the risk of developing an abnormal blood clot averages about 1 in 1,000 per year in the general population, the presence of one copy of the factor V Leiden mutation increases that risk to 4 to 8 in 1,000, and having two copies of the mutation may raise the risk as high as 80 in 1,000. People with factor V Leiden have an increased chance of having a blood clot that forms in large veins in the legs (deep venous thrombosis, or DVT) or a clot that travels through the bloodstream and lodges in the lungs (pulmonary embolism, or PE). Symptoms of deep vein thrombosis usually include leg pain, tenderness, swelling, increased warmth or redness in one leg. The symptoms of pulmonary embolism usually include cough, chest pain, shortness of breath or rapid heartbeat or breathing. To learn more about the symptoms of DVT and PE, click here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Renpenning syndrome ?
Answer: Renpenning syndrome is caused by mutations in the PQBP1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called polyglutamine-binding protein 1. This protein attaches (binds) to stretches of multiple copies of a protein building block (amino acid) called glutamine in certain other proteins.  While the specific function of polyglutamine-binding protein 1 is not well understood, it is believed to play a role in processing and transporting RNA, a chemical cousin of DNA that serves as the genetic blueprint for the production of proteins.  In nerve cells (neurons) such as those in the brain, polyglutamine-binding protein 1 is found in structures called RNA granules. These granules allow the transport and storage of RNA within the cell. The RNA is held within the granules until the genetic information it carries is translated to produce proteins or until cellular signals or environmental factors trigger the RNA to be degraded. Through these mechanisms, polyglutamine-binding protein 1 is thought to help control the way genetic information is used (gene expression) in neurons. This control is important for normal brain development.  Most of the mutations in the PQBP1 gene that cause Renpenning syndrome result in an abnormally short polyglutamine-binding protein 1. The function of a shortened or otherwise abnormal protein is likely impaired and interferes with normal gene expression in neurons, resulting in abnormal development of the brain and the signs and symptoms of Renpenning syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Aneurysm ?
Answer: An aneurysm (AN-u-rism) is a balloon-like bulge in an artery. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your body.
                
Arteries have thick walls to withstand normal blood pressure. However, certain medical problems, genetic conditions, and trauma can damage or injure artery walls. The force of blood pushing against the weakened or injured walls can cause an aneurysm.
                
An aneurysm can grow large and rupture (burst) or dissect. A rupture causes dangerous bleeding inside the body. A dissection is a split in one or more layers of the artery wall. The split causes bleeding into and along the layers of the artery wall.
                
Both rupture and dissection often are fatal.
                
Overview
                
Most aneurysms occur in the aorta, the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body. The aorta goes through the chest and abdomen.
                
An aneurysm that occurs in the chest portion of the aorta is called a thoracic (tho-RAS-ik) aortic aneurysm. An aneurysm that occurs in the abdominal portion of the aorta is called an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
                
Aneurysms also can occur in other arteries, but these types of aneurysm are less common. This article focuses on aortic aneurysms.
                
About 13,000 Americans die each year from aortic aneurysms. Most of the deaths result from rupture or dissection.
                
Early diagnosis and treatment can help prevent rupture and dissection. However, aneurysms can develop and grow large before causing any symptoms. Thus, people who are at high risk for aneurysms can benefit from early, routine screening.
                
Outlook
                
Doctors often can successfully treat aortic aneurysms with medicines or surgery if theyre found in time. Medicines may be given to lower blood pressure, relax blood vessels, and reduce the risk of rupture.
                
Large aortic aneurysms often can be repaired with surgery. During surgery, the weak or damaged portion of the aorta is replaced or reinforced.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Holoprosencephaly ?
Answer: Holoprosencephaly is a disorder caused by the failure of the prosencephalon (the embryonic forebrain) to sufficiently divide into the double lobes of the cerebral hemispheres. The result is a single-lobed brain structure and severe skull and facial defects. In most cases of holoprosencephaly, the malformations are so severe that babies die before birth. In less severe cases, babies are born with normal or near-normal brain development and facial deformities that may affect the eyes, nose, and upper lip.
                
There are three classifications of holoprosencephaly. Alobar, in which the brain has not divided at all, is usually associated with severe facial deformities. Semilobar, in which the brain's hemispheres have somewhat divided, causes an intermediate form of the disorder. Lobar, in which there is considerable evidence of separate brain hemispheres, is the least severe form. In some cases of lobar holoprosencephaly the baby's brain may be nearly normal.
                
The least severe of the facial anomalies is the median cleft lip (premaxillary agenesis). The most severe is cyclopia, an abnormality characterized by a single eye located in the area normally occupied by the root of the nose, and a missing nose or a proboscis (a tubular-shaped nose) located above the eye. The least common facial anomaly is ethmocephaly, in which a proboscis separates closely-set eyes. Cebocephaly, another facial anomaly, is characterized by a small, flattened nose with a single nostril situated below incomplete or underdeveloped closely-set eyes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What causes 2q37 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: What causes 2q37 deletion syndrome? 2q37 deletion syndrome is caused by a deletion of genetic material from a specific region in the long (q) arm of chromosome 2. The deletion occurs near the end of the chromosome at a location designated 2q37. The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals. The signs and symptoms of this disorder are probably related to the loss of multiple genes in this region.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Chronic Pain ?
Answer: While acute pain is a normal sensation triggered in the nervous system to alert you to possible injury and the need to take care of yourself, chronic pain is different. Chronic pain persists. Pain signals keep firing in the nervous system for weeks, months, even years. There may have been an initial mishap -- sprained back, serious infection, or there may be an ongoing cause of pain -- arthritis, cancer, ear infection, but some people suffer chronic pain in the absence of any past injury or evidence of body damage. Many chronic pain conditions affect older adults. Common chronic pain complaints include headache, low back pain, cancer pain, arthritis pain, neurogenic pain (pain resulting from damage to the peripheral nerves or to the central nervous system itself), psychogenic pain (pain not due to past disease or injury or any visible sign of damage inside or outside the nervous system). A person may have two or more co-existing chronic pain conditions. Such conditions can include chronic fatigue syndrome, endometriosis, fibromyalgia, inflammatory bowel disease, interstitial cystitis, temporomandibular joint dysfunction, and vulvodynia. It is not known whether these disorders share a common cause.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2 ?
Answer: X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2 has been estimated to affect fewer than 1 in 400,000 newborns. However, the disorder may actually be more common than this estimate because it is likely underdiagnosed, particularly in females with mild signs and symptoms.  More than 95 percent of cases of X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2 occur in females. About a dozen males with the condition have been reported in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Carpenter syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Surviving Cancer ?
Answer: You can try several things that might help prevent or relieve lymphedema. - Watch for signs of swelling or infection (redness, pain, heat, and fever). Tell your health care provider if your arm or leg is painful or swollen.   - Avoid getting cuts, insect bites, or sunburn in the affected area.   - Keep your skin clean and use lotion to keep it moist.   - Wear loose-fitting clothing on your arms or legs.  Watch for signs of swelling or infection (redness, pain, heat, and fever). Tell your health care provider if your arm or leg is painful or swollen. Avoid getting cuts, insect bites, or sunburn in the affected area. Keep your skin clean and use lotion to keep it moist. Wear loose-fitting clothing on your arms or legs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is hereditary angioedema inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Gastroparesis ?
Answer: Changing eating habits can sometimes help control the severity of gastroparesis symptoms. A health care provider may suggest eating six small meals a day instead of three large ones. If less food enters the stomach each time a person eats, the stomach may not become overly full, allowing it to empty more easily. Chewing food well, drinking noncarbonated liquids with a meal, and walking or sitting for 2 hours after a mealinstead of lying downmay assist with gastric emptying.
                
A health care provider may also recommend avoiding high-fat and fibrous foods. Fat naturally slows digestion and some raw vegetables and fruits are more difficult to digest than other foods. Some foods, such as oranges and broccoli, contain fibrous parts that do not digest well. People with gastroparesis should minimize their intake of large portions of these foods because the undigested parts may remain in the stomach too long. Sometimes, the undigested parts form bezoars.
                
When a person has severe symptoms, a liquid or pured diet may be prescribed. As liquids tend to empty more quickly from the stomach, some people may find a pured diet helps improve symptoms. Pured fresh or cooked fruits and vegetables can be incorporated into shakes and soups. A health care provider may recommend a dietitian to help a person plan meals that minimize symptoms and ensure all nutritional needs are met.
                
When the most extreme cases of gastroparesis lead to severe nausea, vomiting, and dehydration, urgent care may be required at a medical facility where IV fluids can be given.
                

                
Medications
                
Several prescription medications are available to treat gastroparesis. A combination of medications may be used to find the most effective treatment.
                
Metoclopramide (Reglan). This medication stimulates stomach muscle contractions to help with gastric emptying. Metoclopramide also helps reduce nausea and vomiting. The medication is taken 20 to 30 minutes before meals and at bedtime. Possible side effects of metoclopramide include fatigue, sleepiness, and depression. Currently, this is the only medication approved by the FDA for treatment of gastroparesis. However, the FDA has placed a black box warning on this medication because of rare reports of it causing an irreversible neurologic side effect called tardive dyskinesiaa disorder that affects movement.
                
Erythromycin. This antibiotic, prescribed at low doses, may improve gastric emptying. Like metaclopramide, erythromycin works by increasing the contractions that move food through the stomach. Possible side effects of erythromycin include nausea, vomiting, and abdominal cramps.
                
Other medications. Other medications may be used to treat symptoms and problems related to gastroparesis. For example, medications known as antiemetics are used to help control nausea and vomiting.
                
Botulinum Toxin
                
Botulinum toxin is a nerve blocking agent also known as Botox. After passing an endoscope into the stomach, a health care provider injects the Botox into the pylorus, the opening from the stomach into the duodenum. Botox is supposed to help keep the pylorus open for longer periods of time and improve symptoms of gastroparesis. Although some initial research trials showed modest improvement in gastroparesis symptoms and the rate of gastric emptying following the injections, other studies have failed to show the same degree of effectiveness of the Botox injections.1
                
Gastric Electrical Stimulation
                
This treatment alternative may be effective for some people whose nausea and vomiting do not improve with dietary changes or medications. A gastric neurostimulator is a surgically implanted battery-operated device that sends mild electrical pulses to the stomach muscles to help control nausea and vomiting. The procedure may be performed at a hospital or outpatient center by a gastroenterologist. General anesthesia may be required. The gastroenterologist makes several tiny incisions in the abdomen and inserts a laparoscopea thin tube with a tiny video camera attached. The camera sends a magnified image from inside the stomach to a video monitor, giving the gastroenterologist a close-up view of the tissues. Once implanted, the settings on the battery-operated device can be adjusted to determine the settings that best control symptoms.
                
Jejunostomy
                
If medications and dietary changes dont work, and the person is losing weight or requires frequent hospitalization for dehydration, a health care provider may recommend surgically placing a feeding tube through the abdominal wall directly into a part of the small intestine called the jejunum. The surgical procedure is known as a jejunostomy. The procedure is performed by a surgeon at a hospital or outpatient center. Anesthesia is needed. The feeding tube bypasses the stomach and delivers a special liquid food with nutrients directly into the jejunum. The jejunostomy is used only when gastroparesis is extremely severe.
                
Parenteral Nutrition
                
When gastroparesis is so severe that dietary measures and other treatments are not helping, a health care provider may recommend parenteral nutritionan IV liquid food mixture supplied through a special tube in the chest. The procedure is performed by a surgeon at a hospital or outpatient center; anesthesia is needed. The surgeon inserts a thin, flexible tube called a catheter into a chest vein, with the catheter opening outside the skin. A bag containing liquid nutrients is attached to the catheter, and the nutrients are transported through the catheter into the chest vein and into the bloodstream. This approach is a less preferable alternative to a jejunostomy and is usually a temporary treatment to get through a difficult period of gastroparesis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Fanconi Bickel syndrome ?
Answer: Fanconi Bickel syndrome (FBS) is a rare glycogen storage disease characterized by glycogen accumulation in the liver and kidneys; severe renal tubular dysfunction; and impaired glucose and galactose metabolism. Signs and symptoms begin in the first few months of life and include failure to thrive, excessive urination (polyuria) and rickets, followed by short stature and hepatosplenomegaly in early childhood. Puberty is delayed. FBS is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the SLC2A2 gene. Treatment is generally symptomatic.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) beta-ketothiolase deficiency ?
Answer: Beta-ketothiolase deficiency is an inherited disorder in which the body cannot effectively process a protein building block (amino acid) called isoleucine. This disorder also impairs the body's ability to process ketones, which are molecules produced during the breakdown of fats.  The signs and symptoms of beta-ketothiolase deficiency typically appear between the ages of 6 months and 24 months. Affected children experience episodes of vomiting, dehydration, difficulty breathing, extreme tiredness (lethargy), and, occasionally, seizures. These episodes, which are called ketoacidotic attacks, sometimes lead to coma. Ketoacidotic attacks are frequently triggered by infections, periods without food (fasting), or increased intake of protein-rich foods.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Gillespie syndrome inherited ?
Answer: In some cases, including those in which Gillespie syndrome is caused by PAX6 gene mutations, the condition occurs in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some affected individuals inherit the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Gillespie syndrome can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The gene or genes involved in these cases are unknown. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Peripheral Artery Disease ?
Answer: Treatments for peripheral artery disease (P.A.D.) include lifestyle changes, medicines, and surgery or procedures.
                
The overall goals of treating P.A.D. include reducing risk of heart attack and stroke; reducing symptoms of claudication; improving mobility and overall quality of life; and preventing complications. Treatment is based on your signs and symptoms, risk factors, and the results of physical exams and tests.
                

                
Treatment may slow or stop the progression of the disease and reduce the risk of complications. Without treatment, P.A.D. may progress, resulting in serious tissue damage in the form of sores or gangrene (tissue death) due to inadequate blood flow. In extreme cases of P.A.D., also referred to as critical limb ischemia (CLI), removal (amputation) of part of the leg or foot may be necessary.
                

                

                
Lifestyle Changes
                
Treatment often includes making long-lasting lifestyle changes, such as:
                
Physical activity
                
Quitting smoking
                
Heart-healthy eating
                

                
Physical Activity
                
Routine physical activity can improve P.A.D. symptoms and lower many risk factors for atherosclerosis, including LDL (bad) cholesterol, high blood pressure, and excess weight. Exercise can improve the distances you can comfortably walk.
                
Talk with your doctor about taking part in a supervised exercise program. If a supervised program is not an option, ask your doctor to help you develop an exercise plan. Most exercise programs begin slowly, which includes simple walking alternating with rest. Over time, most people build up the amount of time they can walk before developing pain. The more active you are, the more you will benefit.
                

                

                
Quitting Smoking
                
If you smoke, quit. Smoking raises your risk for P.A.D. Smoking also raises your risk for other diseases, such as coronary heart disease and heart attack, and worsens other coronary heart disease risk factors. Talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit smoking. Also, try to avoid secondhandsmoke.
                
If you have trouble quitting smoking on your own, consider joining a support group. Many hospitals, workplaces, and community groups offer classes to help people quit smoking.
                

                
Read more about quitting smoking at Smoking and Your Heart.
                

                

                
Heart-Healthy Eating
                
Your doctor may recommend heart-healthy eating to treat atherosclerosis, the most common cause of P.A.D. Following heart-healthy eating can help control blood pressure and cholesterol levels, which can lead to atherosclerosis.
                

                
Medicines
                
Your doctor may prescribe medicines to:
                
Prevent blood clots from forming due to low blood flow with anticlotting medicines, such as aspirin.
                
Treat unhealthy cholesterol levels with statins. Statins control or lower blood cholesterol. By lowering your blood cholesterol level, you can decrease your chance of developing complications from P.A.D.
                
Treat high blood pressure with one of many high blood pressure medicines.
                
Help ease leg pain that occurs when you walk or climb stairs.
                
Reduce the symptoms of intermittent claudication, measured by increased walking distance with certain platelet-aggregation inhibitors.
                

                
Surgery or Procedures
                
Bypass Grafting
                
Your doctor may recommend bypass grafting surgery if blood flow in your limb is blocked or nearly blocked. For this surgery, your doctor uses a blood vessel from another part of your body or a synthetic tube to make a graft.
                
This graft bypasses (that is, goes around) the blocked part of the artery. The bypass allows blood to flow around the blockage. This surgery doesnt cure P.A.D., but it may increase blood flow to the affected limb.
                

                
Angioplasty and Stent Placement
                
Your doctor may recommend angioplasty to restore blood flow through a narrowed or blockedartery.
                
During this procedure, a catheter (thin tube) with a balloon at the tip is inserted into a blocked artery. The balloon is then inflated, which pushes plaque outward against the artery wall. This widens the artery and restores blood flow.
                

                
A stent (a small mesh tube) may be placed in the artery during angioplasty. A stent helps keep the artery open after angioplasty is done. Some stents are coated with medicine to help prevent blockages in the artery.
                

                
Atherectomy
                
Atherectomy is a procedure that removes plaque buildup from an artery. During the procedure, a catheter is used to insert a small cutting device into the blocked artery. The device is used to shave or cut off plaque.
                
The bits of plaque are removed from the body through the catheter or washed away in the bloodstream (if theyre small enough).
                

                
Doctors also can perform atherectomy using a special laser that dissolves the blockage.
                

                
Other Types of Treatment
                
Researchers are studying cell and gene therapies to treat P.A.D. However, these treatments arent yet available outside of clinical trials. Read more about clinicaltrials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Priapism ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Priapism? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Priapism. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Priapism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Mucolipidosis III alpha/beta ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mucolipidosis III alpha/beta? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mucolipidosis III alpha/beta. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Craniofacial hyperostosis 90% Hearing abnormality 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Prominent occiput 90% Short stature 90% Visual impairment 90% Acne 50% Coarse facial features 50% Hernia of the abdominal wall 50% Hyperlordosis 50% Abnormality of the aortic valve 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Reduced bone mineral density 7.5% Aortic regurgitation - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Broad ribs - Carpal bone hypoplasia - Craniosynostosis - Deficiency of N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase - Dysostosis multiplex - Hyperopic astigmatism - Increased serum beta-hexosaminidase - Increased serum iduronate sulfatase activity - Intellectual disability - Irregular carpal bones - J-shaped sella turcica - Mandibular prognathia - Retinal degeneration - Scoliosis - Shallow acetabular fossae - Short long bone - Short ribs - Soft tissue swelling of interphalangeal joints - Specific learning disability - Split hand - Thickened skin - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 ?
Answer: The signs and symptoms of diabetes are
                
- being very thirsty  - urinating often  - feeling very hungry  - feeling very tired  - losing weight without trying  - sores that heal slowly  - dry, itchy skin  - feelings of pins and needles in your feet  - losing feeling in your feet  - blurry eyesight
                
Some people with diabetes dont have any of these signs or symptoms. The only way to know if you have diabetes is to have your doctor do a blood test.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency ?
Answer: Aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) deficiency is an inherited condition that affects the way signals are passed between certain cells in the nervous system. Individuals affected by this condition often have severe movement disorders, abnormal eye movements, autonomic symptoms, and neurological impairment. The condition is caused by mutations in the DDC gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Treatment includes a variety of medications which may result in varying levels of success in individual patients. Physical, occupational, and speech therapy may also be of benefit.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome ?
Answer: Beare-Stevenson  cutis gyrata syndrome is a genetic condition characterized by skin abnormalities (cutis gyrata, which causes a furrowed and wrinkled appearance, and acanthosis nigricans) and the premature fusion of certain bones of the skull (craniosynostosis). This early fusion prevents the skull from growing normally and affects the shape of the head and face. Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome is caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, although all reported cases have resulted from new mutations in the gene and occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Angioplasty
Answer: Summary : If you have coronary artery disease, the arteries in your heart are narrowed or blocked by a sticky material called plaque. Angioplasty is a procedure to restore blood flow through the artery.    You have angioplasty in a hospital. The doctor threads a thin tube through a blood vessel in the arm or groin up to the involved site in the artery. The tube has a tiny balloon on the end. When the tube is in place, the doctor inflates the balloon to push the plaque outward against the wall of the artery. This widens the artery and restores blood flow.    Doctors may use angioplasty to       - Reduce chest pain caused by reduced blood flow to the heart    - Minimize damage to heart muscle from a heart attack       Many people go home the day after angioplasty, and are able to return to work within a week of coming home.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Nodular regenerative hyperplasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Nodular regenerative hyperplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Nodular regenerative hyperplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hepatic failure 90% Hypertension 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Dowling-Degos disease ?
Answer: Is there a medicine that can cure Dowling-Degos disease? There is no cure for Dowling-Degos disease. Many different treatments have been tried for this condition, but none has proven effective in eliminating the symptoms for all patients. Topical retinoic acids, topical steroids, hydroquinone, tretinoin, and systemic retinoids have been used without success. Limited reports indicate at least temporary therapeutic benefit with topical adapalene. Various laser systems (CO2 and erbiumYAG) have also shown some promise.    Additional articles that address this topic can be accessed below: Altomare G, Capella GL, Fracchiolla C, Frigerio E. Effectiveness of topical adapalene in Dowling-Degos disease. Dermatology. 1999;198(2):176-7.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis inherited ?
Answer: SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis can have different patterns of inheritance. It is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered SLC4A1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means a mutation must occur in both copies of the SLC4A1 gene for the condition to develop. This pattern occurs with certain types of SLC4A1 gene mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Menetrier disease ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Menetrier disease? Although some patients with Mntrier disease may not experience symptoms, most patients have stomach pain, diarrhea, weight loss, peripheral edema, and sometimes bleeding. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Menetrier disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abdominal pain 90% Edema of the lower limbs 90% Nausea and vomiting 90% Anorexia 50% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 50% Hypoproteinemia 50% Iron deficiency anemia 50% Weight loss 50% Sepsis 7.5% Giant hypertrophic gastritis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for spastic paraplegia type 7 ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of spastic paraplegia type 7:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia Overview  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Spastic Paraplegia 7  - Genetic Testing Registry: Spastic paraplegia 7  - Spastic Paraplegia Foundation, Inc.: Treatments and Therapies   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Jejunal atresia inherited ?
Answer: Is jejunal atresia inherited? Most cases of jejunal atresia occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. However, it can rarely affect more than one family member. In these families, jejunal atresia is likely due to a genetic cause and appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive or multifactorial manner.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Glaucoma ?
Answer: The optic nerve is a bundle of more than 1 million nerve fibers. It connects the retina to the brain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: How to diagnose Dry Eye ?
Answer: Diagnosis of dry eye requires a comprehensive eye evaluation. Your eye care professional will ask you about your symptoms, your overall health (conditions for which you are treated, medications that you take), your eye history (use of contact lenses, past refractive or other eye surgery), and aspects of your daily environment (exposure to environmental allergens or occupational hazards). He or she will test your vision, check your eye pressure, examine your eyelids and front eye structures, and if necessary may dilate the pupils to examine the inside of the eye. Your eye care professional may order a tearing test to find out if your eyes are producing enough tears to keep them moist. In one type of test, called a Schirmers test, the doctor may measure your tear production by placing strips of blotting paper under your lower eyelids, usually done after numbing the eye with anesthetic drops. After a few minutes, the doctor removes the strips and measures the amount of tear production.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal pyramidal signs 90% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 90% Hypertonia 90% Muscle weakness 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 90% Impaired pain sensation 50% Kyphosis 50% Scoliosis 50% Gait disturbance 7.5% Incoordination 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% Tremor 7.5% Areflexia - Decreased nerve conduction velocity - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - EMG: axonal abnormality - Foot dorsiflexor weakness - Pes cavus - Steppage gait - Upper limb muscle weakness - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Langer mesomelic dysplasia ?
Answer: The prevalence of Langer mesomelic dysplasia is unknown, although the condition appears to be rare. Several dozen affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Marden-Walker syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Marden-Walker syndrome? The underlying cause of Marden-Walker syndrome has not been clearly established. It appears to be a developmental disorder of the central nervous system and is likely to be the expression of various heterogeneous diseases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to adult polyglucosan body disease ?
Answer: Mutations in the GBE1 gene cause adult polyglucosan body disease. The GBE1 gene provides instructions for making the glycogen branching enzyme. This enzyme is involved in the production of a complex sugar called glycogen, which is a major source of stored energy in the body. Most GBE1 gene mutations result in a shortage (deficiency) of the glycogen branching enzyme, which leads to the production of abnormal glycogen molecules. These abnormal glycogen molecules, called polyglucosan bodies, accumulate within cells and cause damage. Nerve cells (neurons) appear to be particularly vulnerable to the accumulation of polyglucosan bodies in people with this disorder, leading to impaired neuronal function.  Some mutations in the GBE1 gene that cause adult polyglucosan body disease do not result in a shortage of glycogen branching enzyme. In people with these mutations, the activity of this enzyme is normal. How mutations cause the disease in these individuals is unclear. Other people with adult polyglucosan body disease do not have identified mutations in the GBE1 gene. In these individuals, the cause of the disease is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for What I need to know about Gas ?
Answer: You can try to treat gas on your own, before seeing your health care provider, if you think you have too much.
                
Swallowing less air and changing what you eat can help prevent or reduce gas. Try the following tips:
                
- Eat more slowly.  - If you smoke, quit or cut down.  - If you wear dentures, see your dentist and make sure your dentures fit correctly.  - Dont chew gum or suck on hard candies.  - Avoid carbonated drinks, such as soda and beer.  - Drink less fruit juice, especially apple juice and pear juice.  - Avoid or eat less of the foods that cause you to have gas.
                
Some over-the-counter medicines can help reduce gas:
                
- Taking alpha-galactosidase (Beano) when you eat beans, vegetables, and whole grains can reduce gas.  - Simethicone (Gas-X, Mylanta Gas) can relieve bloating and abdominal pain or discomfort caused by gas.  - If you are lactose intolerant, lactase tablets or liquid drops can help you digest milk and milk products. You can also find lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products at the grocery store.
                
Your health care provider may prescribe medicine to help relieve gas, especially if you have SIBO or IBS.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of X-linked thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of X-linked thrombocytopenia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for X-linked thrombocytopenia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the musculature - Bruising susceptibility - Congenital thrombocytopenia - Decreased mean platelet volume - Eczema - Epistaxis - Increased IgA level - Increased IgE level - Intermittent thrombocytopenia - Joint hemorrhage - Petechiae - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia:  - Cleveland Clinic: Osteomyelitis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Bone Mineral Density Testing   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Asthma ?
Answer: Asthma is a long-term disease that has no cure. The goal of asthma treatment is to control the disease. Good asthma control will:
                
Prevent chronic and troublesome symptoms, such as coughing and shortness of breath
                
Reduce your need for quick-relief medicines (see below)
                
Help you maintain good lung function
                
Let you maintain your normal activity level and sleep through the night
                
Prevent asthma attacks that could result in an emergency room visit or hospital stay
                
To control asthma, partner with your doctor to manage your asthma or your child's asthma. Children aged 10 or olderand younger children who are ableshould take an active role in their asthma care.
                
Taking an active role to control your asthma involves:
                
Working with your doctor to treat other conditions that can interfere with asthma management.
                
Avoiding things that worsen your asthma (asthma triggers). However, one trigger you should not avoid is physical activity. Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle. Talk with your doctor about medicines that can help you stay active.
                
Working with your doctor and other health care providers to create and follow an asthma action plan.
                
An asthma action plan gives guidance on taking your medicines properly, avoiding asthma triggers (except physical activity), tracking your level of asthma control, responding to worsening symptoms, and seeking emergency care when needed.
                
Asthma is treated with two types of medicines: long-term control and quick-relief medicines. Long-term control medicines help reduce airway inflammation and prevent asthma symptoms. Quick-relief, or "rescue," medicines relieve asthma symptoms that may flare up.
                
Your initial treatment will depend on the severity of your asthma. Followup asthma treatment will depend on how well your asthma action plan is controlling your symptoms and preventing asthma attacks.
                
Your level of asthma control can vary over time and with changes in your home, school, or work environments. These changes can alter how often you're exposed to the factors that can worsen your asthma.
                
Your doctor may need to increase your medicine if your asthma doesn't stay under control. On the other hand, if your asthma is well controlled for several months, your doctor may decrease your medicine. These adjustments to your medicine will help you maintain the best control possible with the least amount of medicine necessary.
                
Asthma treatment for certain groups of peoplesuch as children, pregnant women, or those for whom exercise brings on asthma symptomswill be adjusted to meet their special needs.
                
Follow an Asthma Action Plan
                
You can work with your doctor to create a personal asthma action plan. The plan will describe your daily treatments, such as which medicines to take and when to take them. The plan also will explain when to call your doctor or go to the emergency room.
                
If your child has asthma, all of the people who care for him or her should know about the child's asthma action plan. This includes babysitters and workers at daycare centers, schools, and camps. These caretakers can help your child follow his or her action plan.
                
Go to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's (NHLBI's) "Asthma Action Plan" for a sample plan.
                
Avoid Things That Can Worsen Your Asthma
                
Many common things (called asthma triggers) can set off or worsen your asthma symptoms. Once you know what these things are, you can take steps to control many of them. (For more information about asthma triggers, go to "What Are the Signs and Symptoms of Asthma?")
                
For example, exposure to pollens or air pollution might make your asthma worse. If so, try to limit time outdoors when the levels of these substances in the outdoor air are high. If animal fur triggers your asthma symptoms, keep pets with fur out of your home or bedroom.
                
One possible asthma trigger you shouldnt avoid is physical activity. Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle. Talk with your doctor about medicines that can help you stay active.
                
The NHLBI offers many useful tips for controlling asthma triggers. For more information, go to page 2 of NHLBI's "Asthma Action Plan."
                
If your asthma symptoms are clearly related to allergens, and you can't avoid exposure to those allergens, your doctor may advise you to get allergy shots.
                
You may need to see a specialist if you're thinking about getting allergy shots. These shots can lessen or prevent your asthma symptoms, but they can't cure your asthma.
                
Several health conditions can make asthma harder to manage. These conditions include runny nose, sinus infections, reflux disease, psychological stress, and sleep apnea. Your doctor will treat these conditions as well.
                
Medicines
                
Your doctor will consider many things when deciding which asthma medicines are best for you. He or she will check to see how well a medicine works for you. Then, he or she will adjust the dose or medicine as needed.
                
Asthma medicines can be taken in pill form, but most are taken using a device called an inhaler. An inhaler allows the medicine to go directly to your lungs.
                
Not all inhalers are used the same way. Ask your doctor or another health care provider to show you the right way to use your inhaler. Review the way you use your inhaler at every medical visit.
                
Long-Term Control Medicines
                
Most people who have asthma need to take long-term control medicines daily to help prevent symptoms. The most effective long-term medicines reduce airway inflammation, which helps prevent symptoms from starting. These medicines don't give you quick relief from symptoms.
                
Inhaled corticosteroids. Inhaled corticosteroids are the preferred medicine for long-term control of asthma. They're the most effective option for long-term relief of the inflammation and swelling that makes your airways sensitive to certain inhaled substances.
                
Reducing inflammation helps prevent the chain reaction that causes asthma symptoms. Most people who take these medicines daily find they greatly reduce the severity of symptoms and how often they occur.
                
Inhaled corticosteroids generally are safe when taken as prescribed. These medicines are different from the illegal anabolic steroids taken by some athletes. Inhaled corticosteroids aren't habit-forming, even if you take them every day for many years.
                
Like many other medicines, though, inhaled corticosteroids can have side effects. Most doctors agree that the benefits of taking inhaled corticosteroids and preventing asthma attacks far outweigh the risk of side effects.
                
One common side effect from inhaled corticosteroids is a mouth infection called thrush. You might be able to use a spacer or holding chamber on your inhaler to avoid thrush. These devices attach to your inhaler. They help prevent the medicine from landing in your mouth or on the back of your throat.
                
Check with your doctor to see whether a spacer or holding chamber should be used with the inhaler you have. Also, work with your health care team if you have any questions about how to use a spacer or holding chamber. Rinsing your mouth out with water after taking inhaled corticosteroids also can lower your risk for thrush.
                
If you have severe asthma, you may have to take corticosteroid pills or liquid for short periods to get your asthma under control.
                
If taken for long periods, these medicines raise your risk for cataracts and osteoporosis (OS-te-o-po-RO-sis). A cataract is the clouding of the lens in your eye. Osteoporosis is a disorder that makes your bones weak and more likely to break.
                
Your doctor may have you add another long-term asthma control medicine so he or she can lower your dose of corticosteroids. Or, your doctor may suggest you take calcium and vitamin D pills to protect your bones.
                
Other long-term control medicines. Other long-term control medicines include:
                
Cromolyn. This medicine is taken using a device called a nebulizer. As you breathe in, the nebulizer sends a fine mist of medicine to your lungs. Cromolyn helps prevent airway inflammation.
                
Omalizumab (anti-IgE). This medicine is given as a shot (injection) one or two times a month. It helps prevent your body from reacting to asthma triggers, such as pollen and dust mites. Anti-IgE might be used if other asthma medicines have not worked well.
                
A rare, but possibly life-threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis might occur when the Omalizumab injection is given. If you take this medication, work with your doctor to make sure you understand the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and what actions you should take.
                
Inhaled long-acting beta2-agonists. These medicines open the airways. They might be added to inhaled corticosteroids to improve asthma control. Inhaled long-acting beta2-agonists should never be used on their own for long-term asthma control. They must used with inhaled corticosteroids.
                
Leukotriene modifiers. These medicines are taken by mouth. They help block the chain reaction that increases inflammation in your airways.
                
Theophylline. This medicine is taken by mouth. Theophylline helps open the airways.
                
If your doctor prescribes a long-term control medicine, take it every day to control your asthma. Your asthma symptoms will likely return or get worse if you stop taking your medicine.
                
Long-term control medicines can have side effects. Talk with your doctor about these side effects and ways to reduce or avoid them.
                
With some medicines, like theophylline, your doctor will check the level of medicine in your blood. This helps ensure that youre getting enough medicine to relieve your asthma symptoms, but not so much that it causes dangerous side effects.
                
Quick-Relief Medicines
                
All people who have asthma need quick-relief medicines to help relieve asthma symptoms that may flare up. Inhaled short-acting beta2-agonists are the first choice for quick relief.
                
These medicines act quickly to relax tight muscles around your airways when you're having a flareup. This allows the airways to open up so air can flow through them.
                
You should take your quick-relief medicine when you first notice asthma symptoms. If you use this medicine more than 2 days a week, talk with your doctor about your asthma control. You may need to make changes to your asthma action plan.
                
Carry your quick-relief inhaler with you at all times in case you need it. If your child has asthma, make sure that anyone caring for him or her has the child's quick-relief medicines, including staff at the child's school. They should understand when and how to use these medicines and when to seek medical care for your child.
                
You shouldn't use quick-relief medicines in place of prescribed long-term control medicines. Quick-relief medicines don't reduce inflammation.
                
Track Your Asthma
                
To track your asthma, keep records of your symptoms, check your peak flow number using a peak flow meter, and get regular asthma checkups.
                
Record Your Symptoms
                
You can record your asthma symptoms in a diary to see how well your treatments are controlling your asthma.
                
Asthma is well controlled if:
                
You have symptoms no more than 2 days a week, and these symptoms don't wake you from sleep more than 1 or 2 nights a month.
                
You can do all your normal activities.
                
You take quick-relief medicines no more than 2 days a week.
                
You have no more than one asthma attack a year that requires you to take corticosteroids by mouth.
                
Your peak flow doesn't drop below 80 percent of your personal best number.
                
If your asthma isn't well controlled, contact your doctor. He or she may need to change your asthma action plan.
                
Use a Peak Flow Meter
                
This small, hand-held device shows how well air moves out of your lungs. You blow into the device and it gives you a score, or peak flow number. Your score shows how well your lungs are working at the time of the test.
                
Your doctor will tell you how and when to use your peak flow meter. He or she also will teach you how to take your medicines based on your score.
                
Your doctor and other health care providers may ask you to use your peak flow meter each morning and keep a record of your results. You may find it very useful to record peak flow scores for a couple of weeks before each medical visit and take the results with you.
                
When you're first diagnosed with asthma, it's important to find your "personal best" peak flow number. To do this, you record your score each day for a 2- to 3-week period when your asthma is well-controlled. The highest number you get during that time is your personal best. You can compare this number to future numbers to make sure your asthma is controlled.
                
Your peak flow meter can help warn you of an asthma attack, even before you notice symptoms. If your score shows that your breathing is getting worse, you should take your quick-relief medicines the way your asthma action plan directs. Then you can use the peak flow meter to check how well the medicine worked.
                
Get Asthma Checkups
                
When you first begin treatment, you'll see your doctor about every 2 to 6 weeks. Once your asthma is controlled, your doctor may want to see you from once a month to twice a year.
                
During these checkups, your doctor may ask whether you've had an asthma attack since the last visit or any changes in symptoms or peak flow measurements. He or she also may ask about your daily activities. This information will help your doctor assess your level of asthma control.
                
Your doctor also may ask whether you have any problems or concerns with taking your medicines or following your asthma action plan. Based on your answers to these questions, your doctor may change the dose of your medicine or give you a new medicine.
                
If your control is very good, you might be able to take less medicine. The goal is to use the least amount of medicine needed to control your asthma.
                
Emergency Care
                
Most people who have asthma, including many children, can safely manage their symptoms by following their asthma action plans. However, you might need medical attention at times.
                
Call your doctor for advice if:
                
Your medicines don't relieve an asthma attack.
                
Your peak flow is less than half of your personal best peak flow number.
                
Call 911 for emergency care if:
                
You have trouble walking and talking because you're out of breath.
                
You have blue lips or fingernails.
                
At the hospital, you'll be closely watched and given oxygen and more medicines, as well as medicines at higher doses than you take at home. Such treatment can save your life.
                
Asthma Treatment for Special Groups
                
The treatments described above generally apply to all people who have asthma. However, some aspects of treatment differ for people in certain age groups and those who have special needs.
                
Children
                
It's hard to diagnose asthma in children younger than 5 years. Thus, it's hard to know whether young children who wheeze or have other asthma symptoms will benefit from long-term control medicines. (Quick-relief medicines tend to relieve wheezing in young children whether they have asthma or not.)
                
Doctors will treat infants and young children who have asthma symptoms with long-term control medicines if, after assessing a child, they feel that the symptoms are persistent and likely to continue after 6 years of age. (For more information, go to "How Is Asthma Diagnosed?")
                
Inhaled corticosteroids are the preferred treatment for young children. Montelukast and cromolyn are other options. Treatment might be given for a trial period of 1month to 6 weeks. Treatment usually is stopped if benefits aren't seen during that time and the doctor and parents are confident the medicine was used properly.
                
Inhaled corticosteroids can possibly slow the growth of children of all ages. Slowed growth usually is apparent in the first several months of treatment, is generally small, and doesn't get worse over time. Poorly controlled asthma also may reduce a child's growth rate.
                
Many experts think the benefits of inhaled corticosteroids for children who need them to control their asthma far outweigh the risk of slowed growth.
                
Older Adults
                
Doctors may need to adjust asthma treatment for older adults who take certain other medicines, such as beta blockers, aspirin and other pain relievers, and anti-inflammatory medicines. These medicines can prevent asthma medicines from working well and may worsen asthma symptoms.
                
Be sure to tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take, including over-the-counter medicines.
                
Older adults may develop weak bones from using inhaled corticosteroids, especially at high doses. Talk with your doctor about taking calcium and vitamin D pills, as well as other ways to help keep your bones strong.
                
Pregnant Women
                
Pregnant women who have asthma need to control the disease to ensure a good supply of oxygen to their babies. Poor asthma control increases the risk of preeclampsia, a condition in which a pregnant woman develops high blood pressure and protein in the urine. Poor asthma control also increases the risk that a baby will be born early and have a low birth weight.
                
Studies show that it's safer to take asthma medicines while pregnant than to risk having an asthma attack.
                
Talk with your doctor if you have asthma and are pregnant or planning a pregnancy. Your level of asthma control may get better or it may get worse while you're pregnant. Your health care team will check your asthma control often and adjust your treatment as needed.
                
People Whose Asthma Symptoms Occur With Physical Activity
                
Physical activity is an important part of a healthy lifestyle. Adults need physical activity to maintain good health. Children need it for growth and development.
                
In some people, however, physical activity can trigger asthma symptoms. If this happens to you or your child, talk with your doctor about the best ways to control asthma so you can stay active.
                
The following medicines may help prevent asthma symptoms caused by physical activity:
                
Short-acting beta2-agonists (quick-relief medicine) taken shortly before physical activity can last 2 to 3 hours and prevent exercise-related symptoms in most people who take them.
                
Long-acting beta2-agonists can be protective for up to 12 hours. However, with daily use, they'll no longer give up to 12 hours of protection. Also, frequent use of these medicines for physical activity might be a sign that asthma is poorly controlled.
                
Leukotriene modifiers. These pills are taken several hours before physical activity. They can help relieve asthma symptoms brought on by physical activity.
                
Long-term control medicines. Frequent or severe symptoms due to physical activity may suggest poorly controlled asthma and the need to either start or increase long-term control medicines that reduce inflammation. This will help prevent exercise-related symptoms.
                
Easing into physical activity with a warmup period may be helpful. You also may want to wear a mask or scarf over your mouth when exercising in cold weather.
                
If you use your asthma medicines as your doctor directs, you should be able to take part in any physical activity or sport you choose.
                
People Having Surgery
                
Asthma may add to the risk of having problems during and after surgery. For instance, having a tube put into your throat may cause an asthma attack.
                
Tell your surgeon about your asthma when you first talk with him or her. The surgeon can take steps to lower your risk, such as giving you asthma medicines before or during surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What causes Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Kidney disease is most often caused by diabetes or high blood pressure. Each kidney contains about one million tiny filters made up of blood vessels. These filters are called glomeruli. Diabetes and high blood pressure damage these blood vessels, so the kidneys are not able to filter the blood as well as they used to. Usually this damage happens slowly, over many years. As more and more filters are damaged, the kidneys eventually stop working.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for MyD88 deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of MyD88 deficiency:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myd88 deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Pleurisy and Other Pleural Disorders ?
Answer: Your doctor will diagnose pleurisy or another pleural disorder based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
                
Your doctor will want to rule out other causes of your symptoms. He or she also will want to find the underlying cause of the pleurisy or other pleural disorder so it can be treated.
                
Medical History
                
Your doctor may ask detailed questions about your medical history. He or she likely will ask you to describe any pain, especially:
                
What it feels like
                
Where it's located and whether you can feel it in your arms, jaw, or shoulders
                
When it started and whether it goes away and then comes back
                
What makes it better or worse
                
Your doctor also may ask whether you have other symptoms, such as shortness of breath, coughing, or palpitations. Palpitations are feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, or beating too hard or fast.
                
Your doctor also may ask whether you've ever:
                
Had heart disease.
                
Smoked.
                
Traveled to places where you may have been exposed to tuberculosis.
                
Had a job that exposed you to asbestos. Asbestos is a mineral that, at one time, was widely used in many industries.
                
Your doctor also may ask about medicines you take or have taken. Reactions to some medicines can cause pleurisy or other pleural disorders. 
                
Physical Exam
                
Your doctor will listen to your breathing with a stethoscope to find out whether your lungs are making any abnormal sounds.
                
If you have pleurisy, the inflamed layers of the pleura make a rough, scratchy sound as they rub against each other when you breathe. Doctors call this a pleural friction rub. If your doctor hears the friction rub, he or she will know that you have pleurisy.
                
If you have a pleural effusion, fluid buildup in the pleural space will prevent a friction rub. But if you have a lot of fluid, your doctor may hear a dull sound when he or she taps on your chest. Or, he or she may have trouble hearing any breathing sounds.
                
Muffled or dull breathing sounds also can be a sign of a pneumothorax (a buildup of air or gas in the pleural space).
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
Depending on the results of your physical exam, your doctor may recommend tests.
                
Chest X Ray
                
Achest x rayis a painless test that creates a picture of the structures in your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. This test may show air or fluid in the pleural space.
                
A chest x ray also may show what's causing a pleural disorderfor example, pneumonia, a fractured rib, or a lung tumor.
                
Sometimes a chest x ray is taken while you lie on your side. This position can show fluid that didn't appear on an x ray taken while you were standing.
                
Chest CT Scan
                
A chest computed tomography (to-MOG-rah-fee) scan, orchest CT scan,is a painless test that creates precise pictures of the structures in your chest.
                
This test provides a computer-generated picture of your lungs that can show pockets of fluid. A chest CT scan also may show signs of pneumonia, a lung abscess, a tumor, or other possible causes of pleural disorders.
                
Ultrasound
                
This test uses sound waves to create pictures of your lungs. An ultrasound may show where fluid is located in your chest. The test also can show some tumors.
                
Chest MRI
                
A chest magnetic resonance imaging scan, orchest MRI,uses radio waves, magnets, and a computer to created detailed pictures of the structures in your chest. This test can show pleural effusions and tumors.
                
This test also is called a magnetic resonance (MR) scan or a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) scan.
                
Blood Tests
                
Blood testscan show whether you have an illness that increases your risk of pleurisy or another pleural disorder. Such illnesses include bacterial or viral infections, pneumonia, pancreatitis (an inflamed pancreas), kidney disease, or lupus.
                
Arterial Blood Gas Test
                
For this test, a blood sample is taken from an artery, usually in your wrist. The blood's oxygen and carbon dioxide levels are checked. This test shows how well your lungs are taking in oxygen.
                
Thoracentesis
                
Once your doctor knows whether fluid has built up in the pleural space and where it is, he or she can remove a sample for testing. This is done using a procedure calledthoracentesis(THOR-ah-sen-TE-sis).
                
During the procedure, your doctor inserts a thin needle or plastic tube into the pleural space and draws out the excess fluid. After the fluid is removed from your chest, it's sent for testing.
                
The risks of thoracentesissuch as pain, bleeding, and infectionusually are minor. They get better on their own, or they're easily treated. Your doctor may do a chest x ray after the procedure to check for complications.
                
Fluid Analysis
                
The fluid removed during thoracentesis is examined under a microscope. It's checked for signs of infection, cancer, or other conditions that can cause fluid or blood to build up in the pleural space.
                
Biopsy
                
Your doctor may suspect that tuberculosis or cancer has caused fluid to build up in your pleural space. If so, he or she may want to look at a small piece of the pleura under a microscope.
                
To take a tissue sample, your doctor may do one of the following procedures:
                
Insert a needle into your chest to remove a small sample of the pleura's outer layer.
                
Insert a tube with a light on the end (endoscope) into tiny cuts in your chest wall so that he or she can see the pleura. Your doctor can then snip out small pieces of tissue. This procedure must be done in a hospital. You'll be given medicine to make you sleep during the procedure.
                
Snip out a sample of the pleura through a small cut in your chest wall. This is called an open pleural biopsy. It's usually done if the sample from the needle biopsy is too small for an accurate diagnosis. This procedure must be done in a hospital. You'll be given medicine to make you sleep during the procedure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the genetic changes related to familial hemiplegic migraine ?
Answer: Mutations in the CACNA1A, ATP1A2, SCN1A, and PRRT2 genes have been found to cause familial hemiplegic migraine. The first three genes provide instructions for making proteins that are involved in the transport of charged atoms (ions) across cell membranes. The movement of these ions is critical for normal signaling between nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and other parts of the nervous system. The function of the protein produced from the PRRT2 gene is unknown, although studies suggest it interacts with a protein that helps control signaling between neurons.  Communication between neurons depends on chemicals called neurotransmitters, which are released from one neuron and taken up by neighboring neurons. Researchers believe that mutations in the CACNA1A, ATP1A2, and SCN1A genes can upset the balance of ions in neurons, which disrupts the normal release and uptake of certain neurotransmitters in the brain. Although the mechanism is unknown, researchers speculate that mutations in the PRRT2 gene, which reduce the amount of PRRT2 protein, also disrupt normal control of neurotransmitter release. The resulting changes in signaling between neurons lead people with familial hemiplegic migraine to develop these severe headaches.  There is little evidence that mutations in the CACNA1A, ATP1A2, SCN1A, and PRRT2 genes play a role in common migraines, which affect millions of people each year. Researchers are searching for additional genetic changes that may underlie rare types of migraine, such as familial hemiplegic migraine, as well as the more common forms of migraine.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) adermatoglyphia ?
Answer: Adermatoglyphia is the absence of ridges on the skin on the pads of the fingers and toes, as well as on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The patterns of these ridges (called dermatoglyphs) form whorls, arches, and loops that are the basis for each person's unique fingerprints. Because no two people have the same patterns, fingerprints have long been used as a way to identify individuals. However, people with adermatoglyphia do not have these ridges, and so they cannot be identified by their fingerprints. Adermatoglyphia has been called the "immigration delay disease" because affected individuals have had difficulty entering countries that require fingerprinting for identification.  In some families, adermatoglyphia occurs without any related signs and symptoms. In others, a lack of dermatoglyphs is associated with other features, typically affecting the skin. These can include small white bumps called milia on the face, blistering of the skin in areas exposed to heat or friction, and a reduced number of sweat glands on the hands and feet. Adermatoglyphia is also a feature of several rare syndromes classified as ectodermal dysplasias, including a condition called Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome/dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis that affects the skin, hair, sweat glands, and teeth.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Emanuel syndrome ?
Answer: Emanuel syndrome is a chromosomal disorder that disrupts normal development and affects many parts of the body. Infants with Emanuel syndrome have weak muscle tone (hypotonia) and fail to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive). Their development is significantly delayed, and most affected individuals have severe to profound intellectual disability.  Other features of Emanuel syndrome include an unusually small head (microcephaly), distinctive facial features, and a small lower jaw (micrognathia). Ear abnormalities are common, including small holes in the skin just in front of the ears (preauricular pits or sinuses). About half of all affected infants are born with an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate) or a high arched palate. Males with Emanuel syndrome often have genital abnormalities. Additional signs of this condition can include heart defects and absent or unusually small (hypoplastic) kidneys; these problems can be life-threatening in infancy or childhood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis ?
Answer: The signs and symptoms of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) develop over time. They may not even begin to appear until the disease has done serious damage to your lungs. Once they occur, they're likely to get worse over time.
                
The most common signs and symptoms are:
                
Shortness of breath. This usually is the main symptom of IPF. At first, you may be short of breath only during exercise. Over time, you'll likely feel breathless even at rest.
                
A dry, hacking cough that doesn't get better. Over time, you may have repeated bouts of coughing that you can't control.
                
Other signs and symptoms that you may develop over time include:
                
Rapid, shallow breathing
                
Gradual, unintended weight loss
                
Fatigue (tiredness) or malaise (a general feeling of being unwell)
                
Aching muscles and joints
                
Clubbing, which is the widening and rounding of the tips of the fingers or toes
                
Clubbing
                

                
IPF may lead to other medical problems, including a collapsed lung, lung infections, blood clots in the lungs, and lung cancer.
                
As the disease worsens, you may develop other potentially life-threatening conditions, including respiratory failure, pulmonary hypertension, and heart failure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Seres-Santamaria Arimany Muniz syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Seres-Santamaria Arimany Muniz syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Seres-Santamaria Arimany Muniz syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the nose 90% Abnormality of the palpebral fissures 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Coarse hair 90% Hypohidrosis 90% Non-midline cleft lip 90% Abnormality of dental enamel 50% Abnormality of dental morphology 50% Abnormality of the eyelashes 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 50% Cleft palate 50% Generalized hyperpigmentation 50% Palmoplantar keratoderma 50% Reduced number of teeth 50% Abnormality of the pinna 7.5% Abnormality of the voice 7.5% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Conductive hearing impairment 7.5% Delayed eruption of teeth 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Lacrimation abnormality 7.5% Supernumerary nipple 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% 2-3 toe syndactyly - Abnormality of the nervous system - Absent eyelashes - Anhidrosis - Ankyloblepharon - Anonychia - Atresia of the external auditory canal - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Blepharitis - Cleft upper lip - Conical tooth - Conjunctivitis - Hyperconvex nail - Hyperpigmentation of the skin - Hypodontia - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Hypospadias - Lacrimal duct atresia - Micropenis - Nail dystrophy - Oval face - Patchy alopecia - Patent ductus arteriosus - Selective tooth agenesis - Sparse body hair - Sparse eyelashes - Wide nasal bridge - Widely spaced teeth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Achondrogenesis type 1A ?
Answer: Achondrogenesis is a group of severe disorders that are present from birth and affect the development of cartilage and bone. Infants with achondrogenesis usually have a small body, short arms and legs, and other skeletal abnormalities that cause life-threatening complications.  There are at least three forms of achondrogenesis, type 1A, type 1B and type 2, which are distinguished by signs and symptoms, pattern of inheritance, and the results of imaging studies such as x-rays (radiology), tissue analysis (histology), and genetic testing.  Type 1A and 1B achondrogenesis are both inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.  Type 1B may be caused by mutations in the SLC26A2 gene.  Type 2 achondrogenesis is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and is caused by new (de novo) mutations in the COL2A1 gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of What I need to know about Cirrhosis ?
Answer: You may have no symptoms in the early stages of cirrhosis. As cirrhosis gets worse you may
                
- feel tired or weak  - lose your appetite  - feel sick to your stomach  - lose weight  - notice red, spider-shaped blood vessels under your skin
                
Cirrhosis can lead to other serious problems:
                
- You may bruise or bleed easily, or have nosebleeds.  - Bloating or swelling may occur as fluid builds up in your legs or abdomenthe area between your chest and hips. Fluid buildup in your legs is called edema; buildup in your abdomen is called ascites.  - Medicines, including those you can buy over the counter such as vitamins and herbal supplements, may have a stronger effect on you. Your liver does not break medicines down as quickly as a healthy liver would.   - Waste materials from food may build up in your blood or brain and cause confusion or difficulty thinking.   - Blood pressure may increase in the vein entering your liver, a condition called portal hypertension.   - Enlarged veins, called varices, may develop in your esophagus and stomach. Varices can bleed suddenly, causing you to throw up blood or pass blood in a bowel movement.   - Your kidneys may not work properly or may fail.   - Your skin and the whites of your eyes may turn yellow, a condition called jaundice.   - You may develop severe itching.   - You may develop gallstones.
                
In the early stages, cirrhosis causes your liver to swell. Then, as more scar tissue replaces healthy tissue, your liver shrinks.
                
A small number of people with cirrhosis also get liver cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Meningioma ?
Answer: How might meningiomas be treated? The treatment varies depending on the location of the meningioma and the symptoms caused by the tumor. Careful observation is sometimes the best course of action for people with a meningioma. When treatment is necessary, surgery and radiation are the most common forms of treatment. Radiation may be used if the meningioma cannot be operated on or if the meningioma is only partially removed by surgery. Radiation may also be used in cases of malignant, atypical, or recurrent tumors. Other treatments that have been tried or are being explored include hydroxyurea, epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors, platelet-derived growth factor receptor inhibitors, vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors, immunotherapy to stimulate the immune system, and somatostatin analogs which prevent the release of growth hormones.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is argininosuccinic aciduria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Fractures ?
Answer: A fracture is a break, usually in a bone. If the broken bone punctures the skin, it is called an open or compound fracture. Fractures commonly happen because of car accidents, falls, or sports injuries. Other causes are low bone density and osteoporosis, which cause weakening of the bones. Overuse can cause stress fractures, which are very small cracks in the bone.     Symptoms of a fracture are       - Intense pain    - Deformity - the limb looks out of place    - Swelling, bruising, or tenderness around the injury    - Numbness and tingling    - Problems moving a limb       You need to get medical care right away for any fracture. An x-ray can tell if your bone is broken. You may need to wear a cast or splint. Sometimes you need surgery to put in plates, pins or screws to keep the bone in place.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How many people are affected by Caffey disease ?
Answer: Caffey disease has been estimated to occur in approximately 3 per 1,000 infants worldwide. A few hundred cases have been described in the medical literature. Researchers believe this condition is probably underdiagnosed because it usually goes away by itself in early childhood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Gastroschisis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Gastroschisis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Gastroschisis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Gastroschisis 90% Abnormality of the mesentery 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Nicolaides-Baraitser Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is complement component 2 deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Botox
Answer: Summary : Botox is a drug made from a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. It's the same toxin that causes a life-threatening type of food poisoning called botulism. Doctors use it in small doses to treat health problems, including       - Temporary smoothing of facial wrinkles and improving your appearance    - Severe underarm sweating     - Cervical dystonia - a neurological disorder that causes severe neck and shoulder muscle contractions     - Blepharospasm - uncontrollable blinking     - Strabismus - misaligned eyes     - Chronic migraine    - Overactive bladder       Botox injections work by weakening or paralyzing certain muscles or by blocking certain nerves. The effects last about three to twelve months, depending on what you are treating. The most common side effects are pain, swelling, or bruising at the injection site. You could also have flu-like symptoms, headache, and upset stomach. Injections in the face may also cause temporary drooping eyelids. You should not use Botox if you are pregnant or breastfeeding.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for fibronectin glomerulopathy ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of fibronectin glomerulopathy:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glomerulopathy with fibronectin deposits 2  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Protein Urine Test   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Glomerulonephritis with sparse hair and telangiectases ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Glomerulonephritis with sparse hair and telangiectases? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Glomerulonephritis with sparse hair and telangiectases. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Absent eyebrow - Absent eyelashes - Alopecia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Decreased subcutaneous fat - Epicanthus - Epidermal hyperkeratosis - Facial telangiectasia in butterfly midface distribution - Hydrocele testis - Hypotrichosis - Long nose - Mandibular prognathia - Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis - Oval face - Palpebral edema - Prominent nasal bridge - Reduced subcutaneous adipose tissue - Renal insufficiency - Sparse eyebrow - Sparse eyelashes - Telangiectasia of extensor surfaces - Thick vermilion border - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Factor XIII deficiency ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Factor XIII deficiency? Factor XIII deficiency causes internal bleeding. The blood may seep into surrounding soft tissues several days after trauma, even mild trauma such as a bump or bruise. Pain and swelling may occur at the injury site prior to bleeding. If the bleeding continues, large cysts may form in the surrounding tissue that may destroy bone and cause peripheral nerve damage, usually in the thigh and buttocks areas. At birth, an infant with Factor XIII deficiency may bleed from the umbilical cord, which rarely occurs in other blood clotting disorders. The most serious hemorrhaging that can occur in Factor XIII deficiency is in the central nervous system (i.e., brain and spinal cord) following mild head trauma. This can occur in about 25 percent of affected individuals. In some cases, hemorrhaging may stop spontaneously without treatment. Females with Factor XIII deficiency who become pregnant are at high risk for miscarriage if they do not receive appropriate treatment. Men with this disorder may be sterile or have extremely low sperm counts. Replacing Factor XIII in these men does not correct sterility. Some of the less frequently seen symptoms are poor wound healing, excessive bleeding from wounds, blood blisters attached to the abdominal wall (retroperitoneal hematomas), and/or blood in the urine (hematuria).Some symptoms are seldom or never seen in people with Factor XIII deficiency, which may help to distinguish it from other bleeding disorders. These may include excessive blood loss during menstruation, hemorrhages within the eye, gastrointestinal bleeding, arthritis caused by an accumulation of blood in the joints, excessive bleeding after surgery, bleeding from mucous membranes, and/or tiny red spots on the skin. Factor XIII deficiency is not generally a threat to those who need surgery. The small amount of Factor XIII present in blood transfusions generally prevents bleeding. Excessive bleeding from wounds, abrasions, or even spontaneous abortions is not common unless a person with this disorder uses aspirin or similar medications. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Factor XIII deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal umbilical stump bleeding - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bruising susceptibility - Congenital onset - Epistaxis - Intracranial hemorrhage - Joint hemorrhage - Prolonged bleeding after surgery - Reduced factor XIII activity - Spontaneous hematomas - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Lupus Nephritis ?
Answer: The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They are located just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine. Every day, the two kidneys filter about 120 to 150 of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine, composed of wastes and extra fluid. The urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through tubes called ureters. The bladder stores urine until releasing it through urination.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles ?
Answer: Congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles is a disorder that affects the muscles that surround the eyes. These muscles control eye movement and the position of the eyes (for example, looking straight ahead). Congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles prevents the normal development and function of these muscles. As a result, affected individuals are unable to move their eyes normally. Most people with this condition have difficulty looking upward, and their side-to-side eye movement may also be limited. The eyes may be misaligned such that they look in different directions (strabismus). Instead of moving their eyes, affected individuals may need to turn their head to track moving objects. Additionally, many people with congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles have droopy eyelids (ptosis), which further limits their vision.  Researchers have identified at least four forms of congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles, designated CFEOM1, CFEOM2, CFEOM3, and Tukel syndrome. The specific problems with eye movement vary among the types. Tukel syndrome is characterized by missing fingers (oligodactyly) and other hand abnormalities in addition to problems with eye movement.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by deafness-dystonia-optic neuronopathy syndrome ?
Answer: DDON syndrome is a rare disorder; it has been reported in fewer than 70 people worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by transthyretin amyloidosis ?
Answer: The exact incidence of transthyretin amyloidosis is unknown. In northern Portugal, the incidence of this condition is thought to be one in 538 people. Transthyretin amyloidosis is less common among Americans of European descent, where it is estimated to affect one in 100,000 people. The cardiac form of transthyretin amyloidosis is more common among people with African ancestry. It is estimated that this form affects between 3 percent and 3.9 percent of African Americans and approximately 5 percent of people in some areas of West Africa.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) High Blood Pressure ?
Answer: Normal blood pressure for adults is defined as a systolic pressure below 120 mmHg and a diastolic pressure below 80 mmHg. It is normal for blood pressures to change when you sleep, wake up, or are excited or nervous. When you are active, it is normal for your blood pressure to increase. However, once the activity stops, your blood pressure returns to your normal baseline range. Blood pressure normally rises with age and body size. Newborn babies often have very low blood pressure numbers that are considered normal for babies, while older teens have numbers similar to adults.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Leukemia ?
Answer: Leukemia is a cancer of the blood cells. It is the most common type of blood cancer and affects 10 times as many adults as children. Most people diagnosed with leukemia are over 50 years old. Leukemia Starts in Bone Marrow Leukemia usually begins in the bone marrow, the soft material in the center of most bones where blood cells are formed. The bone marrow makes three types of blood cells, and each type has a special function. - White blood cells fight infection and disease.  - Red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the body.  - Platelets help control bleeding by forming blood clots. White blood cells fight infection and disease. Red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the body. Platelets help control bleeding by forming blood clots. In people with leukemia, the bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells, called leukemia cells. At first, leukemia cells function almost normally. But over time, as more leukemia cells are produced, they may crowd out the healthy white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. This makes it difficult for the blood to carry out its normal functions. There are four common types of adult leukemia. Two are chronic, meaning they get worse over a longer period of time. The other two are acute, meaning they get worse quickly. - chronic lymphocytic leukemia  - chronic myeloid leukemia  - acute myeloid leukemia  - acute lymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myeloid leukemia acute myeloid leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia Chronic and Acute Leukemia Chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, and acute myeloid leukemia are diagnosed more often in older adults. Of these, chronic lymphocytic leukemia is the most common. Acute lymphocytic leukemia is found more often in children. The symptoms for each type of leukemia differ but may include fevers, frequent infections, fatigue, swollen lymph nodes, weight loss, and bleeding and bruising easily. However, such symptoms are not sure signs of leukemia. An infection or another problem also could cause these symptoms. Only a doctor can diagnose and treat the problem. (Watch the video to learn how the rates of leukemia diagnosis vary by age. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)  Learn more about chronic lymphocytic leukemia.  Learn more about acute myeloid leukemia.  Other Cancers That Affect Blood Cells Myeloma and lymphoma are other types of cancer that affect blood cells, but these cancer cells are rarely found in the blood stream. Myeloma is the second most common form of blood cancer, and it affects plasma cells, a type of white blood cell that is found in the bone marrow. Lymphoma accounts for about five percent of all the types of cancer in the United States. It starts in the lymphatic system, which is part of the body's immune system. Both myeloma and lymphoma are more common among older adults and occur more often in men than women.  Learn more about myeloma.  Many Treatments Are Available There are many methods available to treat acute and chronic leukemia, and there are many new treatments being developed that are rapidly changing how numerous types of leukemia are treated. The types of treatments depend on the specific disease and how best to treat it. Some people receive a combination of treatments. Acute leukemia usually needs to be treated right away. But there are many different kinds of acute leukemia. Some respond well to treatment and can be cured in some cases, while others are more difficult to treat. Treatment for chronic leukemia can often control the disease and its symptoms and there are new treatments being developed that may prolong survival. Also, there are several treatments now available for chronic myeloid leukemia that can control the disease for a long time.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: How many people are affected by Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: Alagille syndrome occurs in about one of every 30,000 live births.3 The disorder affects both sexes equally and shows no geographical, racial, or ethnic preferences.
                
JAG1 and NOTCH2 gene mutations are inherited in an autosomal dominant way, which means a child can get Alagille syndrome by inheriting either of the gene mutations from only one parent. Each child of a parent with an autosomal dominant mutation has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the mutated gene.
                
The following chart shows the chance of inheriting an autosomal dominant gene mutation:
                
The gene mutations that cause Alagille syndrome may cause mild or subtle symptoms. Some people may not know they are affected, while others with the gene mutation may develop more serious characteristics of Alagille syndrome. A person with a gene mutation, whether showing serious symptoms or not, has Alagille syndrome and can pass the gene mutation to a child.
                
Read more about how genetic conditions are inherited at the NLM's Genetics Home Reference website at www.ghr.nlm.nih.gov.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Who is at risk for Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma? ?
Answer: Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of adult soft tissue sarcoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for soft tissue sarcoma include the following inherited disorders:         -  Retinoblastoma.    -  Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1; von Recklinghausen disease).    -  Tuberous sclerosis (Bourneville disease).    -  Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP; Gardner syndrome).    -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome.    -  Werner syndrome (adult progeria).    -  Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (Gorlin syndrome).        Other risk factors for soft tissue sarcoma include the following:         - Past treatment with radiation therapy for certain cancers.    - Being exposed to certain chemicals, such as Thorotrast (thorium dioxide), vinyl chloride, or arsenic.    - Having swelling (lymphedema) in the arms or legs for a long time.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How to prevent Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency ?
Answer: You can't prevent alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency because the condition is inherited (passed from parents to children through genes).
                
If you inherit two faulty AAT genes, you'll have AAT deficiency. Even so, you may never develop one of the diseases related to the condition.
                
You can take steps to prevent or delay lung diseases related to AAT deficiency. One important step is to quit smoking. If you don't smoke, don't start.
                
Talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit smoking. If you have trouble quitting smoking on your own, consider joining a support group. Many hospitals, workplaces, and community groups offer classes to help people quit smoking.
                
For more information about how to quit smoking, go to the Health Topics Smoking and Your Heart article and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's "Your Guide to a Healthy Heart." Although these resources focus on heart health, they include basic information about how to quit smoking.
                
Also, try to avoid secondhand smoke and places with dust, fumes, or other toxic substances that you may inhale.
                
Check your living and working spaces for things that may irritate your lungs. Examples include flower and tree pollen, ash, allergens, air pollution, wood burning stoves, paint fumes, and fumes from cleaning products and other household items.
                
If you have a lung disease related to AAT deficiency, ask your doctor whether you might benefit from augmentation therapy. This is a treatment in which you receive infusions of AAT protein.
                
Augmentation therapy raises the level of AAT protein in your blood and lungs. (For more information, go to "How Is Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency Treated?")
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.       Hyperfractionated radiation therapy     Hyperfractionated radiation therapy is radiation treatment in which the total dose of radiation is divided into small doses and the treatments are given more than once a day.        Hyperthermia therapy     Hyperthermia therapy is a treatment in which body tissue is heated above normal temperature to damage and kill cancer cells or to make cancer cells more sensitive to the effects of radiation and certain anticancer drugs.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for Central Pontine Myelinolysis ?
Answer: The ideal treatment for myelinolysis is to prevent the disorder by identifying individuals at risk and following careful guidelines for evaluation and correction of hyponatremia. These guidelines aim to safely restore the serum sodium level, while protecting the brain. For those who have hyponatremia for at least 2 days, or for whom the duration is not known, the rate of rise in the serum sodium concentration should be kept below 10 mmol/L during any 24-hour period, if possible.
                
For those who develop myelinolysis, treatment is supportive. Some physicians have tried to treat myelinolysis with steroid medication or other experimental therapies, but none has been proven effective. Individuals are likely to require extensive and prolonged physical therapy and rehabilitation. Those individuals who develop parkinsonian symptoms may respond to the dopaminergic drugs that work for individuals with Parkinsons disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is chronic granulomatous disease inherited ?
Answer: When chronic granulomatous disease is caused by mutations in the CYBB gene, the condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The CYBB gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. Rarely, females with one altered copy of the CYBB gene have mild symptoms of chronic granulomatous disease, such as an increased frequency of bacterial or fungal infections.  When chronic granulomatous disease is caused by CYBA, NCF1, NCF2, or NCF4 gene mutations, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Men and women are affected by autosomal recessive conditions equally.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 4 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Porphyria ?
Answer: A health care provider diagnoses porphyria with blood, urine, and stool tests. These tests take place at a health care providers office or a commercial facility. A blood test involves drawing blood and sending the sample to a lab for analysis. For urine and stool tests, the patient collects a sample of urine or stool in a special container. A health care provider tests the samples in the office or sends them to a lab for analysis. High levels of porphyrins or porphyrin precursors in blood, urine, or stool indicate porphyria. A health care provider may also recommend DNA testing of a blood sample to look for known gene mutations that cause porphyrias.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Pectus carinatum ?
Answer: Pectus carinatum refers to a chest wall abnormality in which the breastbone is pushed outward. It generally presents during childhood and worsens through adolescence. If the condition occurs in isolation, it is often not associated with any additional signs or symptoms. Rarely, affected people report shortness of breath during exercise, frequent respiratory infections, and/or asthma. The underlying cause of isolated pectus carinatum is unknown. Pectus carinatum can also be associated with a variety of genetic disorders and syndromes, including Marfan syndrome, Noonan syndrome, Morquio syndrome, homocystinuria, osteogenesis imperfecta, Coffin-Lowery syndrome, cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome, and certain chromosome abnormalities. In these cases, the condition has an underlying genetic cause and is associated with additional features that are characteristic of the genetic disease. Pectus carinatum is primarily a cosmetic concern and treatment, therefore, depends on the severity of the condition and the interests of the affected person and their family. In those who choose to pursue treatment, bracing and/or surgery may be an option.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 4 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Abnormality of hair texture 90% Abnormality of temperature regulation 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Abnormality of visual evoked potentials 90% Anemia 90% Bone pain 90% Bowing of the long bones 90% Bruising susceptibility 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Craniosynostosis 90% Delayed eruption of teeth 90% Hearing impairment 90% Hepatomegaly 90% Hydrocephalus 90% Increased bone mineral density 90% Lymphadenopathy 90% Macrocephaly 90% Narrow chest 90% Nystagmus 90% Optic atrophy 90% Pallor 90% Premature loss of primary teeth 90% Recurrent fractures 90% Recurrent respiratory infections 90% Reduced bone mineral density 90% Sinusitis 90% Splenomegaly 90% Tremor 90% Visual impairment 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Abnormality of coagulation 7.5% Abnormality of the pulmonary valve 7.5% Apnea 7.5% Cranial nerve paralysis 7.5% Hypocalcemia 7.5% Hypophosphatemia 7.5% Pulmonary hypertension 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Facial palsy - Hepatosplenomegaly - Osteopetrosis - Reticulocytosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Prader-Willi syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Prader-Willi syndrome inherited? Most cases of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) are not inherited and are due to random events during the formation of egg or sperm cells, or in early fetal development. This is usually the case when PWS is caused by a deletion in the paternal chromosome 15, or by maternal uniparental disomy. However in rare cases, a genetic change responsible for PWS can be inherited. The risk to family members of a person with PWS depends on the genetic cause of the condition in the affected person. Because the various genetic causes of PWS are complex, people seeking information about specific risks to themselves or family members are encouraged to speak with a genetics professional. More information about the causes of PWS can be viewed on our Web site here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your nervous system healthy ?
Answer: Your nervous system carries signals between your brain and other parts of your body through your spinal cord. Nerves are bundles of special tissues that transmit these signals.
                
The signals share information between your brain and body about how things feel. The signals also send information between your brain and body to control automatic body functions, such as breathing and digestion, and to move your body parts.
                
The nerves in your spinal cord branch out to all of your organs and body parts. All your nerves together make up your nervous system.
                
Your nervous system is composed of the
                
- central nervous systemyour brain and spinal cord  - cranial* nervesnerves that connect your brain to your head, neck, and face  - peripheral nervous systemnerves that connect your spinal cord to your entire body, including your organs and your arms, hands, legs, and feet
                
*See the Pronunciation Guide for tips on how to say the the words in bold type.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is fucosidosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of gyrate atrophy:  - Baby's First Test  - Genetic Testing Registry: Ornithine aminotransferase deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to homocystinuria ?
Answer: Mutations in the CBS, MTHFR, MTR, MTRR, and MMADHC genes cause homocystinuria.  Mutations in the CBS gene cause the most common form of homocystinuria. The CBS gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme called cystathionine beta-synthase. This enzyme acts in a chemical pathway and is responsible for converting the amino acid homocysteine to a molecule called cystathionine. As a result of this pathway, other amino acids, including methionine, are produced. Mutations in the CBS gene disrupt the function of cystathionine beta-synthase, preventing homocysteine from being used properly. As a result, this amino acid and toxic byproducts substances build up in the blood. Some of the excess homocysteine is excreted in urine.  Rarely, homocystinuria can be caused by mutations in several other genes. The enzymes made by the MTHFR, MTR, MTRR, and MMADHC genes play roles in converting homocysteine to methionine. Mutations in any of these genes prevent the enzymes from functioning properly, which leads to a buildup of homocysteine in the body. Researchers have not determined how excess homocysteine and related compounds lead to the signs and symptoms of homocystinuria.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency ?
Answer: Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia to accumulate in the blood (hyperammonemia). Ammonia, which is formed when proteins are broken down in the body, is toxic if the levels become too high. The brain is especially sensitive to the effects of excess ammonia.  In the first few days of life, infants with carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency typically exhibit the effects of hyperammonemia, which may include unusual sleepiness, poorly regulated breathing rate or body temperature, unwillingness to feed, vomiting after feeding, unusual body movements, seizures, or coma. Affected individuals who survive the newborn period may experience recurrence of these symptoms if diet is not carefully managed or if they experience infections or other stressors. They may also have delayed development and intellectual disability.  In some people with carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency, signs and symptoms may be less severe and appear later in life.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Klver-Bucy Syndrome ?
Answer: There is no cure for Klver-Bucy syndrome. The disorder is not life-threatening, but the patient can be difficult to manage. With treatment, symptoms may slowly decline.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Necrotizing fasciitis ?
Answer: How might necrotizing fasciitis be treated? Accurate and prompt diagnosis, treatment with intravenous (IV) antibiotics, and surgery to remove dead tissue are all important for treating necrotizing fasciitis. Since the blood supply to the infected tissue is impaired, antibiotics cannot penetrate into the infected tissue. As a result, surgery to remove the dead, damaged, or infected tissue is the cornerstone of treatment for necrotizing fasciitis. In addition, early surgical treatment may minimize tissue loss, eliminating the need for amputation of the infected extremity. The choice of antibiotics will likely depend on the particular bacteria involved. Supplemental oxygen, fluids, and medicines may be needed to raise the blood pressure. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy and intravenous immunoglobulin may also be considered, but their use in patients with NF is considered controversial by some.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Myopathy ?
Answer: Treatments for the myopathies depend on the disease or condition and specific causes. Supportive and symptomatic treatment may be the only treatment available or necessary for some disorders. Treatment for other disorders may include drug therapy, such as immunosuppressives, physical therapy, bracing to support weakened muscles, and surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Pitt-Hopkins syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Pitt-Hopkins syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Pitt-Hopkins Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pitt-Hopkins syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation ?
Answer: Leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation (commonly referred to as LBSL) is a progressive disorder that affects the brain and spinal cord. Leukoencephalopathy refers to abnormalities in the white matter of the brain, which is tissue containing nerve cell fibers (axons) that transmit nerve impulses.  Most affected individuals begin to develop movement problems during childhood or adolescence. However, in some individuals, these problems do not develop until adulthood. People with LBSL have abnormal muscle stiffness (spasticity) and difficulty with coordinating movements (ataxia). In addition, affected individuals lose the ability to sense the position of their limbs or vibrations with their limbs. These movement and sensation problems affect the legs more than the arms, making walking difficult. Most affected individuals eventually require wheelchair assistance, sometimes as early as their teens, although the age varies.  People with LBSL can have other signs and symptoms of the condition. Some affected individuals develop recurrent seizures (epilepsy), speech difficulties (dysarthria), learning problems, or mild deterioration of mental functioning. Some people with this disorder are particularly vulnerable to severe complications following minor head trauma, which may trigger a loss of consciousness, other reversible neurological problems, or fever.  Distinct changes in the brains of people with LBSL can be seen using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These characteristic abnormalities typically involve particular parts of the white matter of the brain and specific regions (called tracts) within the brain stem and spinal cord, especially the pyramidal tract and the dorsal column. In addition, most affected individuals have a high level of a substance called lactate in the white matter of the brain, which is identified using another test called magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Different Treatments for Different Stages There are several types of treatments related to kidney disease. Some are used in earlier stages of kidney disease to protect your kidneys. These medications and lifestyle changes help you maintain kidney function and delay kidney failure. Other treatments, such as dialysis and transplantation, are used to treat kidney failure. These methods help replace kidney function if your own kidneys have stopped working. Treatments for Early Kidney Disease Treatments for early kidney disease include both diet and lifestyle changes and medications. - Making heart-healthy food choices and exercising regularly to maintain a healthy weight can help prevent the diseases that cause further kidney damage.  - If you already have diabetes and/or high blood pressure, keeping these conditions under control can keep them from causing further damage to your kidneys.   - Choose and prepare foods with less salt and sodium. Aim for less than 2,300 milligrams of sodium each day.   - Eat the right amount of protein. Although it is important to eat enough protein to stay healthy, excess protein makes your kidneys work harder. Eating less protein may help delay progression to kidney failure. Talk to your dietitian or other health care provider about what is the right amount of protein for you.  - If you have been diagnosed with kidney disease, ask your doctor about seeing a dietitian. A dietitian can teach you how to choose foods that are easier on your kidneys. You will also learn about the nutrients that matter for kidney disease. You can find a dietitian near you through the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics directory.  - If you smoke, take steps to quit. Cigarette smoking can make kidney damage worse.  Making heart-healthy food choices and exercising regularly to maintain a healthy weight can help prevent the diseases that cause further kidney damage. If you already have diabetes and/or high blood pressure, keeping these conditions under control can keep them from causing further damage to your kidneys. Choose and prepare foods with less salt and sodium. Aim for less than 2,300 milligrams of sodium each day. Eat the right amount of protein. Although it is important to eat enough protein to stay healthy, excess protein makes your kidneys work harder. Eating less protein may help delay progression to kidney failure. Talk to your dietitian or other health care provider about what is the right amount of protein for you. If you have been diagnosed with kidney disease, ask your doctor about seeing a dietitian. A dietitian can teach you how to choose foods that are easier on your kidneys. You will also learn about the nutrients that matter for kidney disease. You can find a dietitian near you through the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics directory. If you smoke, take steps to quit. Cigarette smoking can make kidney damage worse. Medicines Medicines can also help protect the kidneys. People with kidney disease often take medicines to lower blood pressure, control blood glucose, and lower blood cholesterol. Two types of blood pressure medicines -- angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) -- may protect the kidneys and delay kidney failure. These medicines may even protect kidney function in people who don't have high blood pressure. The most important step you can take to treat kidney disease is to control your blood pressure. Many people need two or more medicines to keep their blood pressure at a healthy level. For most people, the blood pressure target is less than 140/90 mm Hg. An ACE inhibitor, ARB, or diuretic (water pill) may help control blood pressure. Your healthcare provider will work with you to choose the right medicines for you. (Watch the video to learn more about medications and kidney disease. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) Be Safe With Your Medicines Some older adults with kidney disease may take medicines for other diseases as well. If you have kidney disease, you need to be careful about all the medicines you take. Your kidneys do not filter as well as they did in the past. This can cause an unsafe buildup of medicines in your blood. Some medicines can also harm your kidneys. As kidney disease progresses, your doctor may need to change the dose (or amount) of all medicines that affect the kidney or are removed by the kidney. You may need to take some medicines in smaller amounts or less often. You may also need to stop taking a medicine or switch to a different one. Effects of NSAID Drugs Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can harm your kidneys, especially if you have kidney disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure. NSAIDs include common over-the-counter and prescription medicines for headaches, pain, fever, or colds. Ibuprofen and naproxen are NSAIDs, but NSAIDs are sold under many different brand names. If you have kidney disease, do not use NSAIDs. Ask your pharmacist or health care provider if the medicines you take are safe to use. You also can look for NSAIDs on Drug Facts labels.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What causes Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis ?
Answer: What causes juvenile primary lateral sclerosis? Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis is caused by mutations in the ALS2 gene. The ALS2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called alsin. Alsin is abundant in motor neurons, but its function is not fully understood. Mutations in the ALS2 gene alter the instructions for producing alsin. As a result, alsin is unstable and decays rapidly, or it is disabled and cannot function properly. It is unclear how the loss of functional alsin protein damages motor neurons and causes juvenile primary lateral sclerosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Fukuyama type muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Fukuyama type muscular dystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Fukuyama type muscular dystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Exaggerated startle response 5% Holoprosencephaly 5% Retinal dysplasia 5% Agenesis of corpus callosum - Areflexia - Atria septal defect - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Calf muscle hypertrophy - Cataract - Cerebellar cyst - Cerebellar hypoplasia - Congenital muscular dystrophy - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Encephalocele - Flexion contracture - Hydrocephalus - Hypermetropia - Hypoplasia of the brainstem - Hypoplasia of the pyramidal tract - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability - Microphthalmia - Muscle weakness - Muscular hypotonia - Myocardial fibrosis - Myopia - Optic atrophy - Pachygyria - Polymicrogyria - Pulmonic stenosis - Respiratory insufficiency - Retinal detachment - Scoliosis - Seizures - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Spinal rigidity - Strabismus - Transposition of the great arteries - Type II lissencephaly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Liddle syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Liddle syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pseudoprimary hyperaldosteronism  - Merck Manual for Health Care Professionals   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for prostate cancer ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of prostate cancer:  - American College of Radiology: Prostate Cancer Radiation Treatment  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial prostate cancer  - Genetic Testing Registry: Prostate cancer, hereditary, 2  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Prostate Brachytherapy  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Prostate Cancer Staging  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Prostate Cancer Treatment  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Blood Test  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Radical Prostatectomy  - MedlinePlus Health Topic: Prostate Cancer Screening  - National Cancer Institute: Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Test  - U.S. Preventive Services Task Force   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Tyrosinemia type 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Tyrosinemia type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tyrosinemia type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) 4-Hydroxyphenylacetic aciduria - 4-Hydroxyphenylpyruvic aciduria - Abnormality of the liver - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hypertyrosinemia - Intellectual disability, mild - Seizures - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 26 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 26? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia 26. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adult onset - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Dysarthria - Dysmetric saccades - Gait ataxia - Impaired horizontal smooth pursuit - Incoordination - Limb ataxia - Nystagmus - Slow progression - Truncal ataxia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Problems with Smell ?
Answer: Our sense of smell helps us enjoy life. We delight in the aromas of our favorite foods or the fragrance of flowers. Our sense of smell also is a warning system, alerting us to danger signals such as a gas leak, spoiled food, or a fire. Any loss in our sense of smell can have a negative effect on our quality of life. It also can be a sign of more serious health problems. Aging and Smell Loss Problems with smell increase as people get older, and they are more common in men than women. In one study, nearly one-quarter of men ages 6069 had a smell disorder, while about 11 percent of women in that age range reported a problem. Many older people are not even aware that they have a problem with their sense of smell because the changes occur gradually over several years. They may not even notice that they are experiencing a loss of smell until there is an incident in which they don't detect food that has spoiled or the presence of dangerous smoke. How Our Sense of Smell Works The sense of smell, or olfaction, is part of our chemical sensing system, along with the sense of taste. Normal smell occurs when odors around us, like the fragrance of flowers or the smell of baking bread, stimulate the specialized sensory cells, called olfactory sensory cells. Olfactory sensory cells are located in a small patch of tissue high inside the nose. Odors reach the olfactory sensory cells in two pathways. The first pathway is by inhaling, or sniffing, through your nose. When people think about smell, they generally think of this pathway. The second pathway is less familiar. It is a channel that connects the roof of the throat region to the nose. When we chew our food, aromas are released that access olfactory sensory cells through this channel. If you are congested due to a head cold or sinus infection, this channel is blocked, which temporarily affects your ability to appreciate the flavors of food. Types of Smell Disorders People who experience smell disorders either have a decrease in their ability to smell or changes in the way they perceive odors. Total smell loss is relatively rare, but a decrease in the sense of smell occurs more often, especially in older adults. A decreased sense of smell may be temporary and treatable with medication. There are several types of smell disorders depending on how the sense of smell is affected. -  Some people have hyposmia, which occurs when their ability to detect certain odors is reduced.   - Other people can't detect odor at all, which is called anosmia.   - Sometimes a loss of smell can be accompanied by a change in the perception of odors. This type of smell disorder is called dysosmia. Familiar odors may become distorted, or an odor that usually smells pleasant instead smells foul.   - Still others may perceive a smell that isn't present at all, which is called phantosmia.   - Smell loss due to aging is called presbyosmia.  Some people have hyposmia, which occurs when their ability to detect certain odors is reduced. Other people can't detect odor at all, which is called anosmia.  Sometimes a loss of smell can be accompanied by a change in the perception of odors. This type of smell disorder is called dysosmia. Familiar odors may become distorted, or an odor that usually smells pleasant instead smells foul. Still others may perceive a smell that isn't present at all, which is called phantosmia.  Smell loss due to aging is called presbyosmia. Smell Loss May Signal Other Conditions Problems with our chemical senses may be a sign of other serious health conditions. A smell disorder can be an early sign of Parkinsons disease, Alzheimers disease, or multiple sclerosis. It can also be related to other medical conditions, such as obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and malnutrition. Getting a diagnosis early will help an individual deal better with the underlying condition or disease. Smell and Taste Smell and taste are closely linked in the brain, but are actually distinct sensory systems. True tastes are detected by taste buds on the tongue and the roof of the mouth, as well as in the throat region, and are limited to sweet, salty, sour, bitter, savory and perhaps a few other sensations. The loss of smell is much more common than the loss of taste, and many people mistakenly believe they have a problem with taste, when they are really experiencing a problem with their sense of smell. A loss in taste or smell is diagnosed by your doctor using special taste and smell tests. Smell Loss and Eating Habits When smell is impaired, people usually have problems appreciating the subtle flavors of food, and say that food is less enjoyable. Some people change their eating habits. Some may eat too little and lose weight while others may eat too much and gain weight. Either way, there may be a long-term impact on one's overall health. Loss of smell may also cause us to eat too much sugar or salt to make our food taste better. This can be a problem for people with certain medical conditions, such as diabetes or high blood pressure. In severe cases, loss of smell can lead to depression. Hazards of Smell Loss Research shows that people with a total or partial loss of smell are almost twice as likely as people with normal smell to have certain kinds of accidents. The most common types of accidents in order of frequency involve - cooking   - eating or drinking spoiled foods or toxic substances   - failing to detect gas leaks or fires  cooking eating or drinking spoiled foods or toxic substances failing to detect gas leaks or fires If you think you have a problem with your sense of smell, see your doctor.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Hairy palms and soles ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hairy palms and soles? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hairy palms and soles. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hypermelanotic macule - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is X-linked infantile spasm syndrome inherited ?
Answer: X-linked infantile spasm syndrome can have different inheritance patterns depending on the genetic cause.  When caused by mutations in the ARX gene, this condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The ARX gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Usually in females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. However, in some instances, one altered copy of the ARX gene is sufficient because the X chromosome with the normal copy of the ARX gene is turned off through a process called X-inactivation. Early in embryonic development in females, one of the two X chromosomes is permanently inactivated in somatic cells (cells other than egg and sperm cells). X-inactivation ensures that females, like males, have only one active copy of the X chromosome in each body cell. Usually X-inactivation occurs randomly, such that each X chromosome is active in about half of the body cells. Sometimes X-inactivation is not random, and one X chromosome is active in more than half of cells. When X-inactivation does not occur randomly, it is called skewed X-inactivation. Some ARX gene mutations may be associated with skewed X-inactivation, which results in the inactivation of the X chromosome with the normal copy of the ARX gene in most cells of the body. This skewed X-inactivation causes the chromosome with the mutated ARX gene to be expressed in more than half of cells, causing X-linked infantile spasm syndrome.  When caused by mutations in the CDKL5 gene, this condition is thought to have an X-linked dominant inheritance pattern. The CDKL5 gene is also located on the X chromosome, making this condition X-linked. The inheritance is dominant because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition in both males and females.  X-linked infantile spasm syndrome caused by CDKL5 gene mutations usually occurs in individuals with no history of the disorder in their family. These mutations likely occur in early embryonic development (called de novo mutations). Because males have only one X chromosome, X-linked dominant disorders are often more severe in males than in females. Male fetuses with CDKL5-related X-linked infantile spasm syndrome may not survive to birth, so more females are diagnosed with the condition. In females, the distribution of active and inactive X chromosomes due to X-inactivation may affect whether a woman develops the condition or the severity of the signs and symptoms. Generally, the larger the proportion of active X chromosomes that contain the mutated CDKL5 gene, the more severe the signs and symptoms of the condition are.  A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Sclerosing mesenteritis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of sclerosing mesenteritis? Common symptoms of sclerosing mesenteritis include abdominal pain or a palpable abdominal mass, weight loss, abdominal distention, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, and fever of unknown cause.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Carotid Artery Disease ?
Answer: Treatments for carotid artery disease may include healthy lifestyle changes, medicines, and medical procedures. The goals of treatment are to stop the disease from getting worse and to prevent a stroke. Your treatment will depend on your symptoms, how severe the disease is, and your age and overall health.
                
Heart-Healthy Lifestyle Changes
                
Your doctor may recommend heart-healthy lifestyle changes if you have carotid artery disease. Heart-healthy lifestyle changes include:
                
Heart-healthy eating
                
Maintaining a healthy weight
                
Managing stress
                
Physical activity
                
Quitting smoking
                
Heart-Healthy Eating
                
Your doctor may recommend a heart-healthy eating plan, which should include:
                
Fat-free or low-fat dairy products, such as skim milk
                
Fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as salmon, tuna, and trout, about twice a week
                
Fruits, such as apples, bananas, oranges, pears, and prunes
                
Legumes, such as kidney beans, lentils, chickpeas, black-eyed peas, and lima beans
                
Vegetables, such as broccoli, cabbage, and carrots
                
Whole grains, such as oatmeal, brown rice, and corn tortillas
                
When following a heart-healthy diet, you should avoid eating:
                
A lot of red meat
                
Palm and coconut oils
                
Sugary foods and beverages
                
Two nutrients in your diet make blood cholesterol levels rise:
                
Saturated fatfound mostly in foods that come from animals
                
Trans fat (trans fatty acids)found in foods made with hydrogenated oils and fats, such as stick margarine; baked goods, such as cookies, cakes, and pies; crackers; frostings; and coffee creamers. Some trans fats also occur naturally in animal fats andmeats.
                
Saturated fat raises your blood cholesterol more than anything else in your diet. When you follow a heart-healthy eating plan, only 5 percent to 6 percent of your daily calories should come from saturated fat. Food labels list the amounts of saturated fat. To help you stay on track, here are some examples:
                
If you eat:
                
Try to eat no more than:
                
1,200 calories a day                 
                
 8 grams of saturated fat a day      
                
1,500 calories a day
                
10 grams of saturated fat a day
                
1,800 calories a day
                
12 grams of saturated fat a day
                
2,000 calories a day
                
13 grams of saturated fat a day
                
2,500 calories a day
                
17 grams of saturated fat a day
                
Not all fats are bad. Monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats actually help lower blood cholesterol levels.
                
Some sources of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats are:
                
Avocados
                
Corn, sunflower, and soybean oils
                
Nuts and seeds, such as walnuts
                
Olive, canola, peanut, safflower, and sesame oils
                
Peanut butter
                
Salmon and trout
                
Tofu
                
Sodium
                
You should try to limit the amount of sodium that you eat. This means choosing and preparing foods that are lower in salt and sodium. Try to use low-sodium and no added salt foods and seasonings at the table or while cooking. Food labels tell you what you need to know about choosing foods that are lower in sodium. Try to eat no more than 2,300 milligrams of sodium a day. If you have high blood pressure, you may need to restrict your sodium intake even more.
                
Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension
                
Your doctor may recommend the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) eating plan if you have high blood pressure. The DASH eating plan focuses on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and other foods that are heart healthy and low in fat, cholesterol, and sodium and salt.
                
The DASH eating plan is a good heart-healthy eating plan, even for those who dont have high blood pressure. Read more about DASH.
                
Alcohol
                
Try to limit alcohol intake. Too much alcohol can raise your blood pressure and triglyceride levels, a type of fat found in the blood. Alcohol also adds extra calories, which may cause weight gain.
                
Men should have no more than two drinks containing alcohol a day. Women should have no more than one drink containing alcohol a day. One drink is:
                
12 ounces of beer
                
5 ounces of wine
                
1 ounces of liquor
                
Maintaining a Healthy Weight
                
Maintaining a healthy weight is important for overall health and can lower your risk for carotid artery disease. Aim for a Healthy Weight by following a heart-healthy eating plan and keeping physically active.
                
Knowing your body mass index (BMI) helps you find out if youre a healthy weight in relation to your height and gives an estimate of your total body fat. To figure out your BMI, check out the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institutes (NHLBI) online BMI calculator or talk to your doctor. A BMI:
                
Below 18.5 is a sign that you are underweight.
                
Between 18.5 and 24.9 is in the normal range.
                
Between 25 and 29.9 is considered overweight.
                
Of 30 or more is considered obese.
                
A general goal to aim for is a BMI of less than 25. Your doctor or health care provider can help you set an appropriate BMI goal.
                
Measuring waist circumference helps screen for possible health risks. If most of your fat is around your waist rather than at your hips, youre at a higher risk for heart disease and type 2 diabetes. This risk may be high with a waist size that is greater than 35 inches for women or greater than 40 inches for men. To learn how to measure your waist, visit Assessing Your Weight and Health Risk.
                
If youre overweight or obese, try to lose weight. A loss of just 3 percent to 5 percent of your current weight can lower your triglycerides, blood glucose, and the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Greater amounts of weight loss can improve blood pressure readings, lower LDL cholesterol, and increase HDL cholesterol.
                
Managing Stress
                
Managing and coping with stress. Learning how to manage stress, relax, and cope with problems can improve your emotional and physical health. Consider healthy stress-reducing activities, such as:
                
A stress management program
                
Meditation
                
Physical activity
                
Relaxation therapy
                
Talking things out with friends or family
                
Physical Activity
                
Routine physical activity can lower many risk factors for coronary heart disease, including LDL (bad) cholesterol, high blood pressure, and excess weight. Physical activity also can lower your risk for diabetes and raise your HDL cholesterol level. HDL is the good cholesterol that helps prevent coronary heart disease.
                
Everyone should try to participate in moderate-intensity aerobic exercise at least 2hours and 30minutes per week, or vigorous aerobic exercise for 1hour and 15minutes per week. Aerobic exercise, such as brisk walking, is any exercise in which your heart beats faster and you use more oxygen than usual. The more active you are, the more you will benefit. Participate in aerobic exercise for at least 10minutes at a time spread throughout the week.
                
Read more about physical activity at:
                
Physical Activity and Your Heart
                
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 2008 Physical Activity Guidelines forAmericans
                
Talk with your doctor before you start a new exercise plan. Ask your doctor how much and what kinds of physical activity are safe for you.
                
Quitting Smoking
                
If you smoke, quit. Smoking can raise your risk for coronary heart disease and heart attack and worsen other coronary heart disease risk factors. Talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit smoking. Also, try to avoid secondhand smoke.
                
If you have trouble quitting smoking on your own, consider joining a support group. Many hospitals, workplaces, and community groups offer classes to help people quit smoking.
                
Read more about quitting smoking at Smoking and Your Heart.
                
Medicines
                
If you have a stroke caused by a blood clot, you may be given a clot-dissolving, or clot-busting, medication. This type of medication must be given within 4 hours of symptom onset. The sooner treatment occurs, the better your chances of recovery. If you think youre having a stroke, call 911 right away for emergency care.
                
Medicines to prevent blood clots are the mainstay treatment for people who have carotid artery disease. They prevent platelets from clumping together and forming blood clots in your carotid arteries, which can lead to a stroke. Two common medications are:
                
Aspirin
                
Clopidogrel
                
Sometimes lifestyle changes alone arent enough to control your cholesterol levels. For example, you also may need statin medications to control or lower your cholesterol. By lowering your blood cholesterol level, you can decrease your chance of having a heart attack or stroke. Doctors usually prescribe statins for people who have:
                
Diabetes
                
Heart disease or have had a stroke
                
High LDL cholesterol levels
                
Doctors may discuss beginning statin treatment with those who have an elevated risk for developing heart disease or having a stroke.
                
You may need other medications to treat diseases and conditions that damage the carotid arteries. Your doctor also may prescribe medications to:
                
Lower your blood pressure.
                
Lower your blood sugar level.
                
Prevent blood clots from forming, which can lead to stroke.
                
Prevent or reduce inflammation.
                
Take all medicines regularly, as your doctor prescribes. Dont change the amount of your medicine or skip a dose unless your doctor tells you to. Your health care team will help find a treatment plan thats right for you.
                
Medical Procedures
                
You may need a medical procedure if you have symptoms caused by the narrowing of the carotid artery. Doctors use one of two methods to open narrowed or blocked carotid arteries: carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery angioplasty and stenting.
                
Carotid Endarterectomy
                
Carotid endarterectomy is mainly for people whose carotid arteries are blocked 50percent ormore.
                
For the procedure, a surgeon will make a cut in your neck to reach the narrowed or blocked carotid artery. Next, he or she will make a cut in the blocked part of the artery and remove the arterys inner lining that is blocking the blood flow.
                
Finally, your surgeon will close the artery with stitches and stop any bleeding. He or she will then close the cut in your neck.
                
Carotid Endarterectomy
                

                
Carotid Artery Angioplasty and Stenting
                
Doctors use a procedure called angioplasty to widen the carotid arteries and restore blood flow to the brain.
                
A thin tube with a deflated balloon on the end is threaded through a blood vessel in your neck to the narrowed or blocked carotid artery. Once in place, the balloon is inflated to push the plaque outward against the wall of the artery.
                
A stent (a small mesh tube) is then put in the artery to support the inner artery wall. The stent also helps prevent the artery from becoming narrowed or blocked again.
                
Carotid Artery Stenting
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Cohen syndrome ?
Answer: Cohen syndrome is an inherited disorder that affects many parts of the body and is characterized by developmental delay, intellectual disability, small head size (microcephaly), and weak muscle tone (hypotonia). Other features include progressive nearsightedness (myopia), degeneration of the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye (retinal dystrophy), an unusually large range of joint movement (hypermobility), and distinctive facial features. Characteristic facial features include thick hair and eyebrows, long eyelashes, unusually-shaped eyes (down-slanting and wave-shaped), a bulbous nasal tip, a smooth or shortened area between the nose and the upper lip (philtrum), and prominent upper central teeth. The combination of the last two facial features results in an open-mouth appearance.  The features of Cohen syndrome vary widely among affected individuals. Additional signs and symptoms in some individuals with this disorder include low levels of white blood cells (neutropenia), overly friendly behavior, and obesity that develops in late childhood or adolescence. When obesity is present, it typically develops around the torso, with the arms and legs remaining slender. Individuals with Cohen syndrome may also have narrow hands and feet, and slender fingers.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to hereditary spherocytosis ?
Answer: Mutations in at least five genes cause hereditary spherocytosis. These genes provide instructions for producing proteins that are found on the membranes of red blood cells. These proteins transport molecules into and out of cells, attach to other proteins, and maintain cell structure. Some of these proteins allow for cell flexibility; red blood cells have to be flexible to travel from the large blood vessels (arteries) to the smaller blood vessels (capillaries). The proteins allow the cell to change shape without breaking when passing through narrow capillaries.  Mutations in red blood cell membrane proteins result in an overly rigid, misshapen cell. Instead of a flattened disc shape, these cells are spherical. Dysfunctional membrane proteins interfere with the cell's ability to change shape when traveling through the blood vessels. The misshapen red blood cells, called spherocytes, are removed from circulation and taken to the spleen for destruction. Within the spleen, the red blood cells break down (undergo hemolysis). The shortage of red blood cells in circulation and the abundance of cells in the spleen are responsible for the signs and symptoms of hereditary spherocytosis.  Mutations in the ANK1 gene are responsible for approximately half of all cases of hereditary spherocytosis. The other genes associated with hereditary spherocytosis each account for a smaller percentage of cases of this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Shwachman-Diamond syndrome ?
Answer: Shwachman-Diamond syndrome is an inherited condition that affects many parts of the body, particularly the bone marrow, pancreas, and skeletal system.  The major function of bone marrow is to produce new blood cells. These include red blood cells, which carry oxygen to the body's tissues; white blood cells, which fight infection; and platelets, which are necessary for normal blood clotting. In Shwachman-Diamond syndrome, the bone marrow malfunctions and does not make some or all types of white blood cells. A shortage of neutrophils, the most common type of white blood cell, causes a condition called neutropenia. Most people with Shwachman-Diamond syndrome have at least occasional episodes of neutropenia, which makes them more vulnerable to infections such as pneumonia, recurrent ear infections (otitis media), and skin infections. Less commonly, bone marrow abnormalities lead to a shortage of red blood cells (anemia), which causes fatigue and weakness, or a reduction in the amount of platelets (thrombocytopenia), which can result in easy bruising and abnormal bleeding.  People with Shwachman-Diamond syndrome have an increased risk of several serious complications related to their malfunctioning bone marrow. Specifically, they have a higher-than-average chance of developing myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and aplastic anemia, which are disorders that affect blood cell production, and a cancer of blood-forming tissue known as acute myeloid leukemia (AML).  Shwachman-Diamond syndrome also affects the pancreas, which is an organ that plays an essential role in digestion. One of this organ's main functions is to produce enzymes that help break down and use the nutrients from food. In most infants with Shwachman-Diamond syndrome, the pancreas does not produce enough of these enzymes. This condition is known as pancreatic insufficiency. Infants with pancreatic insufficiency have trouble digesting food and absorbing nutrients that are needed for growth. As a result, they often have fatty, foul-smelling stools (steatorrhea); are slow to grow and gain weight (failure to thrive); and experience malnutrition. Pancreatic insufficiency often improves with age in people with Shwachman-Diamond syndrome.  Skeletal abnormalities are another common feature of Shwachman-Diamond syndrome. Many affected individuals have problems with bone formation and growth, most often affecting the hips and knees. Low bone density is also frequently associated with this condition. Some infants are born with a narrow rib cage and short ribs, which can cause life-threatening problems with breathing. The combination of skeletal abnormalities and slow growth results in short stature in most people with this disorder.  The complications of this condition can affect several other parts of the body, including the liver, heart, endocrine system (which produces hormones), eyes, teeth, and skin. Additionally, studies suggest that Shwachman-Diamond syndrome may be associated with delayed speech and the delayed development of motor skills such as sitting, standing, and walking.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Diabetes ?
Answer: Heart disease and stroke are the leading causes of death for people with diabetes. Controlling the ABCs of diabetes -- your blood glucose, your blood pressure, and your cholesterol, as well as stopping smoking -- can help prevent these and other complications from diabetes. -  A is for the A1C test  -  B is for Blood pressure  -  C is for Cholesterol. A is for the A1C test B is for Blood pressure C is for Cholesterol. - The A1C test (A-one-C) shows you what your blood glucose has been over the last three months. Your health care provider does this test to see what your blood glucose level is most of the time. This test should be done at least twice a year for all people with diabetes and for some people more often as needed. For many people with diabetes, an A1C test result of under 7 percent usually means that their diabetes treatment is working well and their blood glucose is under control.  The A1C test (A-one-C) shows you what your blood glucose has been over the last three months. Your health care provider does this test to see what your blood glucose level is most of the time. This test should be done at least twice a year for all people with diabetes and for some people more often as needed. For many people with diabetes, an A1C test result of under 7 percent usually means that their diabetes treatment is working well and their blood glucose is under control. -  B is for Blood pressure. The goal for most people is 140/90 but may be different for you. High blood pressure makes your heart work too hard. It can cause heart attack, stroke, and kidney disease. Your blood pressure should be checked at every doctor visit. Talk with your health care provider about your blood pressure goal.  B is for Blood pressure. The goal for most people is 140/90 but may be different for you. High blood pressure makes your heart work too hard. It can cause heart attack, stroke, and kidney disease. Your blood pressure should be checked at every doctor visit. Talk with your health care provider about your blood pressure goal. - C is for Cholesterol (ko-LES-ter-ol). The LDL goal for most people is less than 100. Low density lipoprotein, or LDL-cholesterol, is the bad cholesterol that builds up in your blood vessels. It causes the vessels to narrow and harden, which can lead to a heart attack. Your doctor should check your LDL at least once a year. Talk with your health care provider about your cholesterol goal.  C is for Cholesterol (ko-LES-ter-ol). The LDL goal for most people is less than 100. Low density lipoprotein, or LDL-cholesterol, is the bad cholesterol that builds up in your blood vessels. It causes the vessels to narrow and harden, which can lead to a heart attack. Your doctor should check your LDL at least once a year. Talk with your health care provider about your cholesterol goal. Ask your health care team - what your A1C, blood pressure, and cholesterol numbers are.  - what your ABCs should be.  - what you can do to reach your target.  what your A1C, blood pressure, and cholesterol numbers are. what your ABCs should be. what you can do to reach your target.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is the outlook for Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on:         - The type of lymphoma.    - Where the tumor is in the body when the tumor is diagnosed.    - The stage of the cancer.    - Whether there are certain changes in the chromosomes.    - The type of initial treatment.    - Whether the lymphoma responded to initial treatment.    - The patients age and general health.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: Is Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita inherited ?
Answer: Is epidermolysis bullosa acquisita inherited? Unlike the genetic forms of epidermolysis bullosa, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (EBA) is considered an acquired, sporadic disease. This means that it generally occurs in people with no history of the condition in their families. There have been a couple of reports of families with more than one affected person, suggesting a genetic component may be involved. This could mean that EBA may develop in a person who is "genetically susceptible." However, the condition is not thought to be due to any specific gene(s).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Localized scleroderma ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Localized scleroderma? Signs and symptoms of morphea, include: Hardening of the skin. Thickening of the skin. Discoloration of the affected skin to look lighter or darker than the surrounding area.  The first signs of the disease are reddish patches of skin that thicken into firm, oval-shaped areas. The center of each patch becomes ivory colored with violet borders. These patches sweat very little and have little hair growth. Patches appear most often on the chest, stomach, and back. Sometimes they appear on the face, arms, and legs. Morphea usually affects only the uppermost layers of your skin, but in some cases may involve fatty or connective tissue below your skin. Morphea can be either localized or generalized. Localized morphea limits itself to one or several patches, ranging in size from a half-inch to 12 inches in diameter. The condition sometimes appears on areas treated by radiation therapy. Some people have both morphea and linear scleroderma (which is characterized by a single line or band of thickened and/or abnormally colored skin). The disease is referred to as generalized morphea when the skin patches become very hard and dark and spread over larger areas of the body. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Localized scleroderma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Dry skin 90% Hypopigmented skin patches 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Camptodactyly of toe 7.5% Lower limb asymmetry 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Coronary Heart Disease ?
Answer: Your doctor will diagnose coronary heart disease (CHD) based on your medical and family histories, your risk factors for CHD, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
                
No single test can diagnose CHD. If your doctor thinks you have CHD, he or she may recommend one or more of the following tests.
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
An EKG is a simple, painless test that detects and records the heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast the heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through the heart.
                
An EKG can show signs of heart damage due to CHD and signs of a previous or current heart attack.
                
Stress Testing
                
During stress testing, you exercise to make your heart work hard and beat fast while heart tests are done. If you can't exercise, you may be given medicine to raise your heart rate.
                
When your heart is working hard and beating fast, it needs more blood and oxygen. Plaque-narrowed arteries can't supply enough oxygen-rich blood to meet your heart's needs.
                
A stress test can show possible signs and symptoms of CHD, such as:
                
Abnormal changes in your heart rate or blood pressure
                
Shortness of breath or chest pain
                
Abnormal changes in your heart rhythm or your heart's electrical activity
                
If you can't exercise for as long as what is considered normal for someone your age, your heart may not be getting enough oxygen-rich blood. However, other factors also can prevent you from exercising long enough (for example, lung diseases, anemia, or poor general fitness).
                
As part of some stress tests, pictures are taken of your heart while you exercise and while you rest. These imaging stress tests can show how well blood is flowing in your heart and how well your heart pumps blood when it beats.
                
Echocardiography
                
Echocardiography(echo) uses sound waves to create a moving picture of your heart. The picture shows the size and shape of your heart and how well your heart chambers and valves are working.
                
Echo also can show areas of poor blood flow to the heart, areas of heart muscle that aren't contracting normally, and previous injury to the heart muscle caused by poor blood flow.
                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x ray takes pictures of the organs and structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
                
A chest x ray can reveal signs of heart failure, as well as lung disorders and other causes of symptoms not related to CHD.
                
Blood Tests
                
Blood tests check the levels of certain fats, cholesterol, sugar, and proteins in your blood. Abnormal levels might be a sign that you're at risk for CHD.
                
Coronary Angiography and Cardiac Catheterization
                
Your doctor may recommend coronary angiography (an-jee-OG-rah-fee) if other tests or factors show that you're likely to have CHD. This test uses dye and special x rays to show the insides of your coronary arteries.
                
To get the dye into your coronary arteries, your doctor will use a procedure called cardiac catheterization (KATH-eh-ter-ih-ZA-shun).
                
A thin, flexible tube called a catheter is put into a blood vessel in your arm, groin (upper thigh), or neck. The tube is threaded into your coronary arteries, and the dye is released into your bloodstream.
                
Special x rays are taken while the dye is flowing through your coronary arteries. The dye lets your doctor study the flow of blood through your heart and blood vessels.
                
Cardiac catheterization usually is done in a hospital. You're awake during the procedure. It usually causes little or no pain, although you may feel some soreness in the blood vessel where your doctor inserts the catheter.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: Do you have information about Indoor Air Pollution
Answer: Summary : We usually think of air pollution as being outdoors, but the air in your house or office could also be polluted. Sources of indoor pollution include       - Mold and pollen    - Tobacco smoke    - Household products and pesticides    - Gases such as radon and carbon monoxide      - Materials used in the building such as asbestos, formaldehyde and lead        Sometimes a group of people have symptoms that seem to be linked to time spent in a certain building. There may be a specific cause, such as Legionnaire's disease. Sometimes the cause of the illness cannot be found. This is known as sick building syndrome.    Usually indoor air quality problems only cause discomfort. Most people feel better as soon as they remove the source of the pollution. However, some pollutants can cause diseases that show up much later, such as respiratory diseases or cancer.    Making sure that your building is well-ventilated and getting rid of pollutants can improve the quality of your indoor air.    Environmental Protection Agency
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How many people are affected by Asperger syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Asperger syndrome is not well established. Estimates range from 1 in 250 to 1 in 5,000 children. Three to four times as many males are affected than females.  Because of changes in the way developmental disorders are classified, Asperger syndrome was not often diagnosed in adults until recently, and the prevalence is often perceived to be rising as more people are recognized to have features of the condition. Many mildly affected individuals likely continue to be undiagnosed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (Islet Cell Tumors) ?
Answer: Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. Pancreatic NETs can often be cured. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:         - The type of cancer cell.    - Where the tumor is found in the pancreas.     - Whether the tumor has spread to more than one place in the pancreas or to other parts of the body.    - Whether the patient has MEN1 syndrome.    - The patient's age and general health.    - Whether the cancer has just been diagnosed or has recurred (come back).
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: This disorder is thought to affect approximately 1 in 35,000 to 50,000 newborns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by small fiber neuropathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of small fiber neuropathy is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Transverse Myelitis ?
Answer: Transverse myelitis is a neurological disorder caused by inflammation across both sides of one level, or segment, of the spinal cord. The segment of the spinal cord at which the damage occurs determines which parts of the body are affected. Damage at one segment will affect function at that segment and segments below it. In people with transverse myelitis, inflammation usually occurs at the thoracic (upper back) level, causing problems with leg movement and bowel and bladder control, which require signals from the lower segments of the spinal cord. What usually begins as a sudden onset of lower back pain, muscle weakness, or abnormal sensations in the toes and feet can rapidly progress to more severe symptoms, including paralysis, urinary retention, and loss of bowel control.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by tuberous sclerosis complex ?
Answer: Tuberous sclerosis complex affects about 1 in 6,000 people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Convulsions benign familial neonatal dominant form ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Convulsions benign familial neonatal dominant form? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Convulsions benign familial neonatal dominant form. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Generalized tonic-clonic seizures - Hypertonia - Normal interictal EEG - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by aniridia ?
Answer: Aniridia occurs in 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 newborns worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Exercise for Seniors
Answer: Summary : Exercise and physical activity are good for just about everyone, including older adults. There are four main types and each type is different. Doing them all will give you more benefits.       - Endurance, or aerobic, activities increase your breathing and heart rate. Brisk walking or jogging, dancing, swimming, and biking are examples.    - Strength exercises make your muscles stronger. Lifting weights or using a resistance band can build strength.    - Balance exercises help prevent falls    - Flexibility exercises stretch your muscles and can help your body stay limber       NIH: National Institute on Aging
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Collapsed Lung ?
Answer: A collapsed lung happens when air enters the pleural space, the area between the lung and the chest wall. If it is a total collapse, it is called pneumothorax. If only part of the lung is affected, it is called atelectasis.    Causes of a collapsed lung include       - Lung diseases such as pneumonia or lung cancer    - Being on a breathing machine    - Surgery on the chest or abdomen    - A blocked airway       If only a small area of the lung is affected, you may not have symptoms. If a large area is affected, you may feel short of breath and have a rapid heart rate.    A chest x-ray can tell if you have it. Treatment depends on the underlying cause.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Odontomicronychial dysplasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Odontomicronychial dysplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Odontomicronychial dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Advanced eruption of teeth 90% Premature loss of primary teeth 90% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Premature eruption of permanent teeth - Short nail - Slow-growing nails - Thin nail - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Behet disease ?
Answer: Behet disease is most common in Mediterranean countries, the Middle East, Japan, and other parts of Asia. However, it has been found in populations worldwide.  The highest prevalence of Behet disease has been reported in Turkey, where the disorder affects up to 420 in 100,000 people. The disorder is much less common in northern European countries and the United States, where it generally affects fewer than 1 in 100,000 people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Noonan syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the PTPN11, SOS1, RAF1, KRAS, NRAS and BRAF genes cause Noonan syndrome.  Most cases of Noonan syndrome result from mutations in one of three genes, PTPN11, SOS1, or RAF1. PTPN11 gene mutations account for approximately 50 percent of all cases of Noonan syndrome. SOS1 gene mutations account for 10 to 15 percent and RAF1 gene mutations account for 5 to 10 percent of Noonan syndrome cases. About 2 percent of people with Noonan syndrome have mutations in the KRAS gene and usually have a more severe or atypical form of the disorder. It is not known how many cases are caused by mutations in the BRAF or NRAS genes, but it is likely a very small proportion. The cause of Noonan syndrome in the remaining 20 percent of people with this disorder is unknown.  The PTPN11, SOS1, RAF1, KRAS, NRAS and BRAF genes all provide instructions for making proteins that are important in signaling pathways needed for the proper formation of several types of tissue during development. These proteins also play roles in cell division, cell movement, and cell differentiation (the process by which cells mature to carry out specific functions). Mutations in any of the genes listed above cause the resulting protein to be continuously active, rather than switching on and off in response to cell signals. This constant activation disrupts the regulation of systems that control cell growth and division, leading to the characteristic features of Noonan syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for multiple sulfatase deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of multiple sulfatase deficiency:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple sulfatase deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Prader-Willi habitus, osteopenia, and camptodactyly ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Prader-Willi habitus, osteopenia, and camptodactyly? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Prader-Willi habitus, osteopenia, and camptodactyly. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Camptodactyly of toe 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Hypoplasia of penis 90% Obesity 90% Recurrent fractures 90% Abnormal diaphysis morphology 50% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Epicanthus 50% Eunuchoid habitus 50% Kyphosis 50% Overfolded helix 50% Prominent nasal bridge 50% Short foot 50% Short neck 50% Short stature 50% Strabismus 50% Toe syndactyly 50% Upslanted palpebral fissure 50% Abnormality of the philtrum 7.5% Abnormality of the ureter 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the earlobes 7.5% Abnormality of the genital system - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Camptodactyly - Enlarged epiphyses - Intellectual disability - Joint contracture of the hand - Osteopenia - Osteoporosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Neuronal Migration Disorders ?
Answer: Treatment is symptomatic, and may include anti-seizure medication and special or supplemental education consisting of physical, occupational, and speech therapies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Barth syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Barth syndrome:  - Cleveland Clinic: Dilated Cardiomyopathy  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Barth Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: 3-Methylglutaconic aciduria type 2  - Johns Hopkins Children's Center: Neutrophil Disorders  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Neutropenia--Infants   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Anaplasmosis ?
Answer: Anaplasmosis is a disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilium. This pathogen is transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected tick. The black-legged tick (Ixodes scapularis) is the vector of A. phagocytophilum in the northeast and upper midwestern United States. The western black-legged tick (Ixodes pacificus) is the primary vector in Northern California. The first symptoms of anaplasmosis typically begin within 1-2 weeks after the bite of an infected tick. A tick bite is usually painless, and some patients who develop anaplasmosis do not remember being bitten. The following is a list of symptoms commonly seen with this disease. However, it is important to note that few people with the disease will develop all symptoms, and the number and combination of symptoms varies greatly from person to person. 
  
  - Fever 
  - Headache 
  - Muscle pain 
  - Malaise 
  - Chills 
  - Nausea / Abdominal pain 
  - Cough 
  - Confusion 
  - Rash (rare with anaplasmosis) 
  
 
Anaplasmosis can be a serious illness that can be fatal if not treated correctly, even in previously healthy people.  Severe clinical presentations may include difficulty breathing, hemorrhage, renal failure or neurological problems. The estimated case fatality rate (i.e., the proportion of persons who die as a result of their infection) is less than 1%. Patients who are treated early may recover quickly on outpatient medication, while those who experience a more severe course may require intravenous antibiotics, prolonged hospitalization or intensive care. 
 
 
 Rash 
 
Rash is rarely reported in patients with anaplasmosis and the presence of a rash may signify that the patient has a coinfection with the pathogen that causes Lyme disease or another tickborne disease, such as Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever . 
 
 
 Immune-compromised Individuals 
 
The severity of anaplasmosis may depend in part on the immune status of the patient. Persons with compromised immunity caused by immunosuppressive therapies (e.g., corticosteroids, cancer chemotherapy, or longterm immunosuppressive therapy following organ transplant), HIV infection, or splenectomy appear to develop more severe disease, and case-fatality rates for these individuals are characteristically higher than case-fatality rates reported for the general population. 
 
 
 Blood Transfusion and Organ Transplant Risks Associated with Anaplasma species 
 
Because A. phagocytophilum infects the white blood cells and circulates in the blood stream, this pathogen may pose a risk to be transmitted through blood transfusions. Anaplasma phagocytophilum has been shown to survive for more than a week in refrigerated blood. Several cases of anaplasmosis have been reported associated with the transfusion of packed red blood cells donated from asymptomatic or acutely infected donors. Patients who develop anaplasmosis within a month of receiving a blood transfusion or solid organ transplant should be reported to state health officials for prompt investigation. Use of leukoreduced blood products may theoretically decrease the risk of transfusion-associated transmission of these pathogens.  However, the filtration process does not remove all leukocytes or bacteria not associated with leukocytes from leukoreduced blood. Therefore, while this process may reduce the risk of transmission, it does not eliminate it completely. 
 
 
 Physician Diagnosis 
 
There are several aspects of anaplasmosis that make it challenging for healthcare providers to diagnose and treat.  The symptoms vary from patient to patient and can be difficult to distinguish from other diseases.  Treatment is more likely to be effective if started early in the course of disease. Diagnostic tests based on the detection of antibodies will frequently appear negative in the first 7-10 days of illness. 
 
For this reason, healthcare providers must use their judgment to treat patients based on clinical suspicion alone. Healthcare providers may find important information in the patients history and physical examination that may aid clinical diagnosis. Information such as recent tick bites, exposure to areas where ticks are likely to be found, or history of recent travel to areas where anaplasmosis is endemic can be helpful in making the diagnosis.  The healthcare provider should also look at routine blood tests, such as a complete blood cell count or a chemistry panel. Clues such as a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia), low white blood cell count (leukopenia), or elevated liver enzyme levels are helpful predictors of anaplasmosis, but may not be present in all patients.   After a suspect diagnosis is made on clinical suspicion and treatment has begun, specialized laboratory testing should be used to confirm the diagnosis of anaplasmosis. 
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
 Laboratory Detection 
 
During the acute phase of illness, a sample of whole blood can be tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay to determine if a patient has anaplasmosis. This method is most sensitive in the first week of illness, and rapidly decreases in sensitivity following the administration of appropriate antibiotics. Although a positive PCR result is helpful, a negative result does not completely rule out the diagnosis, and treatment should not be with held due to a negative result. 
 
During the first week of illness a microscopic examination of blood smears (known as a peripheral blood smear) may reveal morulae (microcolonies of anaplasma) in the cytoplasm of white blood cells in up to 20% of patients.  During A. phagocytophilum infection, morulae are most frequently observed in granulocytes. However, the observance of morulae in a particular cell type cannot conclusively identify the infecting species. Culture isolation of A. phagocytophilum is only available at specialized laboratories; routine hospital blood cultures cannot detect the organism. 
 Figure 1: Morulae detected in a granulocyte on a peripheral blood smear, associated with A. phagocytophilum infection. 
  
   
     
    
   
  
 
When a person develops anaplasmosis, their immune system produces antibodies to A. phagocytophilum, with detectable antibody titers usually observed by 7-10 days after illness onset.  It is important to note that a negative test during the first week of illness does not rule out anaplasmosis as a cause of illness.  
 
The gold standard serologic test for diagnosis of anaplasmosis is the indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) using A. phagocytophilum antigen, performed on paired serum samples to demonstrate a significant (four-fold) rise in antibody titers.  The first sample should be taken as early in the disease as possible, preferably in the first week of symptoms, and the second sample should be taken 2 to 4 weeks later. In most cases of anaplasmosis, the first IgG IFA titer is typically low, or negative, and the second typically shows a significant (four-fold) increase in IgG antibody levels. IgM antibodies usually rise at the same time as IgG near the end of the first week of illness and remain elevated for months or longer.  Also, IgM antibodies are less specific than IgG antibodies and more likely to result in a false positive.  For these reasons, physicians requesting IgM serologic titers should also request a concurrent IgG titer. 
 
Serologic tests based on enzyme immunoassay (EIA) technology are available from some commercial laboratories. However, EIA tests are qualitative rather than quantitative, meaning they only provide a positive/negative result, and are less useful to measure changes in antibody titers between paired specimens. Furthermore, some EIA assays rely on the evaluation of IgM antibody alone, which may have a higher frequency of false positive results. 
 
Antibodies to A. phagocytophilum may remain elevated for months or longer after the disease has resolved, or may be detected in persons who were previously exposed to antigenically related organisms.  Between 5-10% of currently healthy people in some areas may have elevated antibody titers due to past exposure to A. phagocytophilum or similar organisms. Therefore, if only one sample is tested it can be difficult to interpret, while paired samples taken weeks apart demonstrating a significant (four-fold) rise in antibody titer provides the best evidence for a correct diagnosis of anaplasmosis. 
 
For more in-depth information about the diagnosis of anaplasmosis, please visit http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5504a1.htm 
 
 
 Treatment 
 
Doxycycline is the first line treatment for adults and children of all ages and should be initiated immediately whenever anaplasmosis is suspected.  
 
Use of antibiotics other than doxycycline or other tetracyclines has been associated with a higher risk of fatal outcome for some rickettsial infections. Doxycycline is most effective at preventing severe complications from developing if it is started early in the course of disease. Therefore, treatment must be based on clinical suspicion alone and should always begin before laboratory results return. 
 
If the patient is treated within the first 5 days of the disease, fever generally subsides within 24-72 hours.  In fact, failure to respond to doxycycline suggests that the patients condition might not be due to anaplasmosis. Severely ill patients may require longer periods before their fever resolves. Resistance to doxcycline or relapses in symptoms after the completion of the recommended course have not been documented.  
 
Recommended Dosage
Doxycycline is the first line treatment for adults and children of all ages: 
  
  - Adults: 100 mg every 12 hours 
  - Children under 45 kg (100 lbs): 2.2 mg/kg body weight given twice a day 
  
 
Patients should be treated for at least 3 days after the fever subsides and until there is evidence of clinical improvement. Standard duration of treatment is 7 to 14 days. Some patients may continue to experience headache, weakness and malaise for weeks after adequate treatment. 
 Treating children 
 
The use of doxycycline to treat suspected anaplasmosis in children is standard practice recommended by both CDC and the AAP Committee on Infectious Diseases. Unlike older generations of tetracyclines, the recommended dose and duration of medication needed to treat anaplasmosis has not been shown to cause staining of permanent teeth, even when five courses are given before the age of eight.  Healthcare providers should use doxycycline as the first-line treatment for suspected anaplasmosis in patients of all ages.  
 Other Treatments 
 
In cases of life threatening allergies to doxycycline and in some pregnant patients for whom the clinical course of anaplasmosis appears mild, physicians may need to consider alternate antibiotics. Although recommended as a second-line therapeutic alternative to treat Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever , chloramphenicol is not recommended for the treatment of anaplasmosis, as studies have shown a lack of efficacy. Rifampin has been used successfully in several pregnant women with anaplasmosis, and studies suggest that this drug appears effective against Anaplasma species. However, rifampin is not effective in treating RMSF, a disease that may be confused with anaplasmosis. Healthcare providers should be cautious when exploring treatments other than doxycycline, which is highly effective in treating both. Other antibiotics, including broad spectrum antibiotics are not considered highly effective against A. phagocytophilum, and the use of sulfa drugs during acute illness may worsen the severity of infection.  
 Prophylaxis (Preventive Treatment) 
 
Antibiotic treatment following a tick bite is not recommended as a means to prevent anaplasmosis. There is no evidence this practice is effective, and this may simply delay onset of disease. Instead, persons who experience a tick bite should be alert for symptoms suggestive of tickborne illness and consult a physician if fever, rash, or other symptoms of concern develop.  
 
For more in-depth information about treatment, please visit http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5504a1.htm 
 
 
 Other Considerations 
 
The clinical presentation for anaplasmosis can resemble other tickborne diseases, such as Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever and ehrlichiosis. Similar to anaplasmosis, these infections respond well to treatment with doxycycline. Healthcare providers should order diagnostic tests for additional agents if the clinical history and geographic association warrant. For more in-depth about other similar tickborne diseases, please visit http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5504a1.htm .
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What is (are) autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome ?
Answer: Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) is an inherited disorder in which the body cannot properly regulate the number of immune system cells (lymphocytes). ALPS is characterized by the production of an abnormally large number of lymphocytes (lymphoproliferation). Accumulation of excess lymphocytes results in enlargement of the lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy), the liver (hepatomegaly), and the spleen (splenomegaly).  People with ALPS have an increased risk of developing cancer of the immune system cells (lymphoma) and may also be at increased risk of developing other cancers.  Autoimmune disorders are also common in ALPS. Autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's own tissues and organs. Most of the autoimmune disorders associated with ALPS target and damage blood cells. For example, the immune system may attack red blood cells (autoimmune hemolytic anemia), white blood cells (autoimmune neutropenia), or platelets (autoimmune thrombocytopenia). Less commonly, autoimmune disorders that affect other organs and tissues occur in people with ALPS. These disorders can damage the kidneys (glomerulonephritis), liver (autoimmune hepatitis), eyes (uveitis), nerves (Guillain-Barre syndrome), or the connective tissues (systemic lupus erythematosus) that provide strength and flexibility to structures throughout the body.  Skin problems, usually rashes or hives (urticaria), can occur in ALPS. Occasionally, affected individuals develop hardened skin with painful lumps or patches (panniculitis). Other rare signs and symptoms of ALPS include joint inflammation (arthritis), inflammation of blood vessels (vasculitis), mouth sores (oral ulcers), or an early loss of ovarian function (premature ovarian failure) may also occur in this disorder. Affected individuals can also develop neurological damage (organic brain syndrome) with symptoms that may include headaches, seizures, or a decline in intellectual functions (dementia).  ALPS can have different patterns of signs and symptoms, which are sometimes considered separate forms of the disorder. In the most common form, lymphoproliferation generally becomes apparent during childhood. Enlargement of the lymph nodes and spleen frequently occur in affected individuals. Autoimmune disorders typically develop several years later, most frequently as a combination of hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia, also called Evans syndrome. People with this classic form of ALPS have a greatly increased risk of developing lymphoma compared with the general population.  Other types of ALPS are very rare. In some affected individuals, severe lymphoproliferation begins around the time of birth, and autoimmune disorders and lymphoma develop at an early age. People with this pattern of signs and symptoms generally do not live beyond childhood. Another form of ALPS involves lymphoproliferation and the tendency to develop systemic lupus erythematosus. Individuals with this form of the disorder do not have an enlarged spleen.  Some people have signs and symptoms that resemble those of ALPS, but the specific pattern of these signs and symptoms or the genetic cause may be different than in other forms. Researchers disagree whether individuals with these non-classic forms should be considered to have ALPS or a separate condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Sideroblastic anemia ?
Answer: How might sideroblastic anemia be treated? The treatment of sideroblastic anemia is directed at controlling symptoms of anemia and preventing organ damage from iron overload. Many patients see improvement with increased vitamin B6 intake - either through diet (potatoes, bananas, raisin bran cereal, lentils, liver, turkey, and tuna are good sources) or supplements - with red blood cell counts returning to near-normal values. Folic acid supplementation may also be beneficial. Those that do not respond to vitamin supplementation require blood transfusion.  A few small studies have described the use of allogenic bone marrow or stem cell transplantation for hereditary and congenital forms of sideroblastic anemia. While these therapies may offer the possibility of a cure, the complications associated with transplantation surgery must be considered.  All patients with sideroblastic anemia should be followed by a hematologist and avoid alcohol.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Guillain-Barr syndrome ?
Answer: Some studies show that normal variations in certain genes may be associated with an increased risk of developing Guillain-Barr syndrome; however, more research is necessary to identify and confirm associated genes. Many of the genes that may increase the risk of Guillain-Barr syndrome are involved in the immune system, and their roles in fighting infection may contribute to the development of the condition.  Most people who develop Guillain-Barr syndrome have a bacterial or viral infection prior to developing the signs and symptoms of the condition. However, only a very small percentage of people who have an infection develop Guillain-Barr syndrome. In order to fight the infection, specialized immune cells produce proteins called antibodies that recognize specific proteins or molecules on the bacteria or virus (pathogen). Some research shows that antibodies that recognize molecules on some pathogens may also recognize proteins on the body's own nerves. As a result, the immune system attacks the nerves, causing inflammation and damaging the axons and myelin, which can lead to the signs and symptoms of Guillain-Barr syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) multiple pterygium syndrome ?
Answer: Multiple pterygium syndrome is a condition that is evident before birth with webbing of the skin (pterygium) at the joints and a lack of muscle movement (akinesia) before birth. Akinesia frequently results in muscle weakness and joint deformities called contractures that restrict the movement of joints (arthrogryposis). As a result, multiple pterygium syndrome can lead to further problems with movement such as arms and legs that cannot fully extend.  The two forms of multiple pterygium syndrome are differentiated by the severity of their symptoms. Multiple pterygium syndrome, Escobar type (sometimes referred to as Escobar syndrome) is the milder of the two types. Lethal multiple pterygium syndrome is fatal before birth or very soon after birth.  In people with multiple pterygium syndrome, Escobar type, the webbing typically affects the skin of the neck, fingers, forearms, inner thighs, and backs of the knee. People with this type may also have arthrogryposis. A side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis) is sometimes seen. Affected individuals may also have respiratory distress at birth due to underdeveloped lungs (lung hypoplasia). People with multiple pterygium syndrome, Escobar type usually have distinctive facial features including droopy eyelids (ptosis), outside corners of the eyes that point downward (downslanting palpebral fissures), skin folds covering the inner corner of the eyes (epicanthal folds), a small jaw, and low-set ears. Males with this condition can have undescended testes (cryptorchidism). This condition does not worsen after birth, and affected individuals typically do not have muscle weakness later in life.  Lethal multiple pterygium syndrome has many of the same signs and symptoms as the Escobar type. In addition, affected fetuses may develop a buildup of excess fluid in the body (hydrops fetalis) or a fluid-filled sac typically found on the back of the neck (cystic hygroma). Individuals with this type have severe arthrogryposis. Lethal multiple pterygium syndrome is associated with abnormalities such as underdevelopment (hypoplasia) of the heart, lung, or brain; twisting of the intestines (intestinal malrotation); kidney abnormalities; an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate); and an unusually small head size (microcephaly). Affected individuals may also develop a hole in the muscle that separates the abdomen from the chest cavity (the diaphragm), a condition called a congenital diaphragmatic hernia. Lethal multiple pterygium syndrome is typically fatal in the second or third trimester of pregnancy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Adrenocortical carcinoma ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Adrenocortical carcinoma? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Adrenocortical carcinoma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adrenocortical carcinoma - Autosomal recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Hypopharyngeal Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with hypopharyngeal cancer.     - Three types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery      - Radiation therapy      - Chemotherapy         - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.    - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with hypopharyngeal cancer.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with hypopharyngeal cancer. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Three types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery      Surgery (removing the cancer in an operation) is a common treatment for all stages of hypopharyngeal cancer. The following surgical procedures may be used:            - Laryngopharyngectomy: Surgery to remove the larynx (voice box) and part of the pharynx (throat).     - Partial laryngopharyngectomy: Surgery to remove part of the larynx and part of the pharynx. A partial laryngopharyngectomy prevents loss of the voice.      -  Neck dissection: Surgery to remove lymph nodes and other tissues in the neck.            Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, some patients may be given chemotherapy or radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.        Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.      -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat hypopharyngeal cancer.    Radiation therapy may work better in patients who have stopped smoking before beginning treatment. External radiation therapy to the thyroid or the pituitary gland may change the way the thyroid gland works. A blood test to check the thyroid hormone level in the body may be done before and after therapy to make sure the thyroid gland is working properly.        Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    Chemotherapy may be used to shrink the tumor before surgery or radiation therapy. This is called neoadjuvant chemotherapy.    See Drugs Approved for Head and Neck Cancer for more information. (Hypopharyngeal cancer is a type of head and neck cancer.)
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.   For hypopharyngeal cancer, follow-up to check for recurrence should include careful head and neck exams once a month in the first year after treatment ends, every 2 months in the second year, every 3 months in the third year, and every 6 months thereafter.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options by Stage
		            
		                
		                    Stage I Hypopharyngeal Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage I hypopharyngeal cancer may include the following:          - Laryngopharyngectomy and neck dissection with or without high-dose radiation therapy to the lymph nodes of the neck.    - Partial laryngopharyngectomy with or without high-dose radiation therapy to the lymph nodes on both sides of the neck.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I hypopharyngeal cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage II Hypopharyngeal Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage II hypopharyngeal cancer may include the following:         - Laryngopharyngectomy and neck dissection. High-dose radiation therapy to the lymph nodes of the neck may be given before or after surgery.    - Partial laryngopharyngectomy. High-dose radiation therapy to the lymph nodes of the neck may be given before or after surgery.    -  Chemotherapy given during or after radiation therapy or after surgery.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy followed by radiation therapy or surgery.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage II hypopharyngeal cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage III Hypopharyngeal Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage III hypopharyngeal cancer may include the following:         -  Radiation therapy before or after surgery.    -  Chemotherapy given during or after radiation therapy or after surgery.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy followed by surgery and/or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy given at the same time as radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of surgery followed by chemotherapy given at the same time as radiation therapy.        Treatment and follow-up of stage III hypopharyngeal cancer is complex and is ideally overseen by a team of specialists with experience and expertise in treating this type of cancer. If all or part of the hypopharynx is removed, the patient may need plastic surgery and other special help with breathing, eating, and talking.    Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III hypopharyngeal cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage IV hypopharyngeal cancer that can be treated with surgery may include the following:         -  Radiation therapy before or after surgery.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy followed by surgery and/or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of surgery followed by chemotherapy given at the same time as radiation therapy.        Surgical treatment and follow-up of stage IV hypopharyngeal cancer is complex and is ideally overseen by a team of specialists with experience and expertise in treating this type of cancer. If all or part of the hypopharynx is removed, the patient may need plastic surgery and other special help with breathing, eating, and talking.    Treatment of stage IV hypopharyngeal cancer that cannot be treated with surgery may include the following:         - Radiation therapy.    - Chemotherapy given at the same time as radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of radiation therapy with chemotherapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage IV hypopharyngeal cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: Who is at risk for Hematuria (Blood in the Urine)? ?
Answer: Almost anyone, including children and teens, can have hematuria. Factors that increase the chance a person will have hematuria include
                
- a family history of kidney disease  - an enlarged prostate, which typically occurs in men age 50 or older  - urinary stone disease  - certain medications including aspirin and other pain relievers, blood thinners, and antibiotics  - strenuous exercise such as long-distance running  - a recent bacterial or viral infection
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Williams syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Williams syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Williams Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Williams syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Williams Syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Klippel-Trenaunay Syndrome (KTS) ?
Answer: KTS is often a progressive disorder, and complications may be life-threatening. However, many individuals can live well while managing their symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Gastroparesis ?
Answer: An elevated blood glucose level directly interferes with normal stomach emptying, so good blood glucose control in people with diabetes is important. However, gastroparesis can make blood glucose control difficult. When food that has been delayed in the stomach finally enters the small intestine and is absorbed, blood glucose levels rise. Gastric emptying is unpredictable with gastroparesis, causing a persons blood glucose levels to be erratic and difficult to control.
                
The primary treatment goals for gastroparesis related to diabetes are to improve gastric emptying and regain control of blood glucose levels. In addition to the dietary changes and treatments already described, a health care provider will likely adjust the persons insulin regimen.
                
To better control blood glucose, people with diabetes and gastroparesis may need to
                
- take insulin more often or change the type of insulin they take  - take insulin after meals, instead of before  - check blood glucose levels frequently after eating and administer insulin when necessary
                
A health care provider will give specific instructions for taking insulin based on the individuals needs and the severity of gastroparesis.
                
In some cases, the dietitian may suggest eating several liquid or pured meals a day until gastroparesis symptoms improve and blood glucose levels are more stable.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Dermatofibrosis lenticularis disseminata   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type I ?
Answer: The overall incidence of GSDI is 1 in 100,000 individuals. GSDIa is more common than GSDIb, accounting for 80 percent of all GSDI cases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Majeed syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Majeed syndrome? Majeed syndrome is caused by mutations in the LPIN2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called lipin-2. Researchers believe that this protein may play a role in the processing of fats. It may also be involved in controlling inflammation and play a role in cell division. Mutations in the LPIN2 gene alter the structure and function of lipin-2. It is unclear how these genetic changes lead to bone disease, anemia, and inflammation of the skin in people with Majeed syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia ?
Answer: PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is a rare condition; however, the exact prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia familial 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia familial 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia familial 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Diabetes mellitus - Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia - Hypoglycemic coma - Hypoglycemic seizures - Intellectual disability - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Feingold syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Feingold syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Feingold Syndrome 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Feingold syndrome 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Feingold syndrome 2  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Duodenal Atresia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Esophageal Atresia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Microcephaly  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Webbing of the Fingers or Toes   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis ?
Answer: How is diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis diagnosed? A diagnosis of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is often suspected based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. X-rays may then be ordered to confirm the diagnosis. In some cases, a computed tomography (CT scan) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may also be ordered to rule out other conditions that cause similar features.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) spastic paraplegia type 4 ?
Answer: Spastic paraplegia type 4 is part of a group of genetic disorders known as hereditary spastic paraplegias. These disorders are characterized by progressive muscle stiffness (spasticity) and the development of paralysis of the lower limbs (paraplegia). Hereditary spastic paraplegias are divided into two types: pure and complex. The pure types involve only the lower limbs, whereas the complex types also involve the upper limbs (to a lesser degree) and the nervous system. Spastic paraplegia type 4 is a pure hereditary spastic paraplegia.  Like all hereditary spastic paraplegias, spastic paraplegia type 4 involves spasticity of the leg muscles and muscle weakness. People with this condition can also experience exaggerated reflexes (hyperreflexia), ankle spasms, high-arched feet (pes cavus), and reduced bladder control. Spastic paraplegia type 4 generally affects nerve and muscle function in the lower half of the body only.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, spondylocheirodysplastic type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, spondylocheirodysplastic type ? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, spondylocheirodysplastic type . If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Blue sclerae 90% Bruising susceptibility 90% Hyperextensible skin 90% Proptosis 90% Short stature 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Thin skin 90% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 50% Abnormality of the metaphyses 50% Absent palmar crease 50% Platyspondyly 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Tapered finger 50% Flexion contracture 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bifid uvula - Broad femoral neck - Camptodactyly of finger - Cigarette-paper scars - Delayed eruption of teeth - Dental malocclusion - Flat capital femoral epiphysis - High palate - Hypodontia - Irregular vertebral endplates - Joint laxity - Metaphyseal widening - Moderately short stature - Osteopenia - Pes planus - Short femoral neck - Short metacarpal - Short phalanx of finger - Thenar muscle atrophy - Waddling gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of SCOT deficiency ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of SCOT deficiency? Symptoms of SCOT deficiency include ketoacidosis crises that are often brought on by physical stress, fasting, or illness. Between crises, patients have no symptoms. Normal growth and development are expected under proper treatment which prevents the occurrence of severe ketoacidotic attacks. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for SCOT deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Episodic ketoacidosis - Ketonuria - Tachypnea - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Pleurisy and Other Pleural Disorders ?
Answer: Pleurisy
                
Many conditions can cause pleurisy. Viral infections are likely the most common cause. Other causes of pleurisy include:
                
Bacterial infections, such as pneumonia (nu-MO-ne-ah) and tuberculosis, and infections from fungi or parasites
                
Pulmonary embolism, a blood clot that travels through the blood vessels to the lungs
                
Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis
                
Cancer, such as lung cancer, lymphoma, and mesothelioma (MEZ-o-thee-lee-O-ma)
                
Chest and heart surgery, especially coronary artery bypass grafting
                
Lung diseases, such as LAM (lymphangioleiomyomatosis) or asbestosis (as-bes-TO-sis)
                
Inflammatory bowel disease
                
Familial Mediterranean fever, an inherited condition that often causes fever and swelling in the abdomen or lungs
                
Other causes of pleurisy include chest injuries, pancreatitis (an inflamed pancreas), and reactions to certain medicines. Reactions to certain medicines can cause a condition similar to lupus. These medicines include procainamide, hydralazine, and isoniazid.
                
Sometimes doctors can't find the cause of pleurisy.
                
Pneumothorax
                
Lung diseases or acute lung injury can make it more likely that you will develop a pneumothorax (a buildup of air or gas in the pleural space). Such lung diseases may include COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), tuberculosis, and LAM.
                
Surgery or a chest injury also may cause a pneumothorax.
                
You can develop a pneumothorax without having a recognized lung disease or chest injury. This is called a spontaneous pneumothorax. Smoking increases your risk of spontaneous pneumothorax. Having a family history of the condition also increases your risk.
                
Pleural Effusion
                
The most common cause of a pleural effusion (a buildup of fluid in the pleural space) is heart failure. Lung cancer, LAM, pneumonia, tuberculosis, and other lung infections also can lead to a pleural effusion.
                
Sometimes kidney or liver disease can cause fluid to build up in the pleural space. Asbestosis, sarcoidosis (sar-koy-DO-sis), and reactions to some medicines also can lead to a pleural effusion.
                
Hemothorax
                
An injury to the chest, chest or heart surgery, or lung or pleural cancer can cause a hemothorax (buildup of blood in the pleural space).
                
A hemothorax also can be a complication of an infection (for example, pneumonia), tuberculosis, or a spontaneous pneumothorax.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the genetic changes related to leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation ?
Answer: LBSL is caused by mutations in the DARS2 gene, which provides instructions for making an enzyme called mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase. This enzyme is important in the production (synthesis) of proteins in cellular structures called mitochondria, the energy-producing centers in cells. While most protein synthesis occurs in the fluid surrounding the nucleus (cytoplasm), some proteins are synthesized in the mitochondria.  During protein synthesis, in either the mitochondria or the cytoplasm, building blocks (amino acids) are connected together in a specific order, creating a chain of amino acids that forms the protein. Mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase plays a role in adding the amino acid aspartic acid at the proper place in mitochondrial proteins.  Mutations in the DARS2 gene result in decreased mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase enzyme activity, which hinders the addition of aspartic acid to mitochondrial proteins. It is unclear how the gene mutations lead to the signs and symptoms of LBSL. Researchers do not understand why reduced activity of mitochondrial aspartyl-tRNA synthetase specifically affects certain parts of the brain and spinal cord.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Diabetes, Heart Disease, and Stroke ?
Answer: Prediabetes is a condition in which blood glucose levels are higher than normal but not high enough for a diagnosis of diabetes. Prediabetes is also called impaired fasting glucose or impaired glucose tolerance. Many people with prediabetes develop type 2 diabetes within 10 years. In addition, they are at risk for heart disease and stroke. With modest weight loss and moderate physical activity, people with prediabetes can delay or prevent type 2 diabetes and lower their risk of heart disease and stroke.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by Greenberg dysplasia ?
Answer: Greenberg dysplasia is a very rare condition. Approximately ten cases have been reported in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) familial erythrocytosis ?
Answer: Familial erythrocytosis is an inherited condition characterized by an increased number of red blood cells (erythrocytes). The primary function of these cells is to carry oxygen from the lungs to tissues and organs throughout the body. Signs and symptoms of familial erythrocytosis can include headaches, dizziness, nosebleeds, and shortness of breath. The excess red blood cells also increase the risk of developing abnormal blood clots that can block the flow of blood through arteries and veins. If these clots restrict blood flow to essential organs and tissues (particularly the heart, lungs, or brain), they can cause life-threatening complications such as a heart attack or stroke. However, many people with familial erythrocytosis experience only mild signs and symptoms or never have any problems related to their extra red blood cells.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Henoch-Schnlein Purpura ?
Answer: Henoch-Schnlein purpura is a disease that causes small blood vessels in the body to become inflamed and leak. The primary symptom is a rash that looks like many small raised bruises. HSP can also affect the kidneys, digestive tract, and joints. HSP can occur any time in life, but it is most common in children between 2 and 6 years of age.1 Most people recover from HSP completely, though kidney damage is the most likely long-term complication. In adults, HSP can lead to chronic kidney disease (CKD) and kidney failure, described as end-stage renal disease when treated with blood-filtering treatments called dialysis or a kidney transplant.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is amelogenesis imperfecta inherited ?
Answer: Amelogenesis imperfecta can have different inheritance patterns depending on the gene that is altered. Many cases are caused by mutations in the FAM83H gene and are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. This type of inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cases caused by mutations in the ENAM gene also have an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern.  Amelogenesis imperfecta can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern; this form of the disorder can result from mutations in the ENAM or MMP20 gene. Autosomal recessive inheritance means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  About 5 percent of amelogenesis imperfecta cases are caused by mutations in the AMELX gene and are inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In most cases, males with X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta experience more severe dental abnormalities than females with this form of this condition.  Other cases of amelogenesis imperfecta result from new gene mutations and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies ?
Answer: Familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies (FENIB) is a disorder that causes progressive dysfunction of the brain (encephalopathy). It is characterized by a loss of intellectual functioning (dementia) and seizures. At first, affected individuals may have difficulty sustaining attention and concentrating. They may experience repetitive thoughts, speech, or movements. As the condition progresses, their personality changes and judgment, insight, and memory become impaired. Affected people lose the ability to perform the activities of daily living, and most eventually require comprehensive care.  The signs and symptoms of FENIB vary in their severity and age of onset. In severe cases, the condition causes seizures and episodes of sudden, involuntary muscle jerking or twitching (myoclonus) in addition to dementia. These signs can appear as early as a person's teens. Less severe cases are characterized by a progressive decline in intellectual functioning beginning in a person's forties or fifties.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to multiminicore disease ?
Answer: Mutations in the RYR1 and SEPN1 genes cause multiminicore disease.  The severe, classic form of multiminicore disease is usually caused by mutations in the SEPN1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called selenoprotein N. Although its function is unknown, researchers suspect that this protein may play a role in the formation of muscle tissue before birth. It may also be important for normal muscle function after birth. It is unclear, however, how mutations in the SEPN1 gene lead to muscle weakness and the other features of multiminicore disease.  Atypical forms of multiminicore disease often result from mutations in the RYR1 gene. RYR1 mutations are also associated with an increased risk of malignant hyperthermia. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called ryanodine receptor 1, which plays an essential role in skeletal muscles. For the body to move normally, these muscles must tense (contract) and relax in a coordinated way. Muscle contractions are triggered by the flow of charged atoms (ions) into muscle cells. In response to certain signals, the ryanodine receptor 1 protein forms a channel that releases stored calcium ions within muscle cells. The resulting increase in calcium ion concentration inside muscle cells stimulates muscle fibers to contract.  Mutations in the RYR1 gene change the structure and function of the ryanodine receptor 1 protein. Some mutations may lead to problems with regulation of the RYR1 channel, while other mutations appear to change the shape of the channel in such a way that calcium ions cannot flow through properly. A disruption in calcium ion transport prevents muscles from contracting normally, leading to the muscle weakness characteristic of multiminicore disease.  In some affected families, the genetic cause of the disorder has not been found. Mutations in genes other than SEPN1 and RYR1 may underlie the condition in these families.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Shingles ?
Answer: The severity and duration of an attack of shingles can be significantly reduced by immediate treatment with antiviral drugs, which include acyclovir, valcyclovir, or famcyclovir. Antiviral drugs may also help stave off the painful after-effects of shingles known as postherpetic neuralgia. Other treatments for postherpetic neuralgia include steroids, antidepressants, anticonvulsants (including pregabalin and gabapentin enacarbil), and topical agents. The varicella zoster virus vaccine (Zostavax) has been approved by teh food and Drug Administration for adults age 50 and older. Researchers found that giving older adults the vaccine reduced the expected number of later cases of shingles by half. And in people who still got the disease despite immunization, the severity and complications of shingles were dramatically reduced. The shingles vaccine is a preventive therapy and not a treatment for those who already have shingles or long-lasting nerve pain (postherpetic neuralgia).
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Bile Duct Cancer (Cholangiocarcinoma) ?
Answer: Signs of bile duct cancer include jaundice and pain in the abdomen. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by bile duct cancer or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         -  Jaundice (yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes).    - Dark urine.    - Clay colored stool.    - Pain in the abdomen.    -  Fever.    - Itchy skin.    -  Nausea and vomiting.    - Weight loss for an unknown reason.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Polycystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive PKD is a rare genetic disorder that affects the liver as well as the kidneys. The signs of autosomal recessive PKD frequently appear in the earliest months of life, even in the womb, so health care providers often call it infantile PKD. In an autosomal recessive disorder, the child has to inherit the gene mutation from both parents to have an increased likelihood for the disorder. The chance of a child inheriting autosomal recessive mutations from both parents with a gene mutation is 25 percent, or one in four. If only one parent carries the mutated gene, the child will not get the disorder, although the child may inherit the gene mutation. The child is a carrier of the disorder and can pass the gene mutation to the next generation. Genetic testing can show whether a parent or child is a carrier of the mutated gene. Autosomal recessive disorders do not typically appear in every generation of an affected family.
                
The following chart shows the chance of inheriting an autosomal recessive mutation from parents who both carry the mutated gene:
                

                

                
Read more about how people inherit genetic conditions at the NLMs Genetics Home Reference.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is harlequin ichthyosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Fragile X syndrome ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for fragile X syndrome? Yes, genetic testing is available for fragile X syndrome. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk are possible if the diagnosis of an FMR1-related disorder (including fragile X syndrome) has been confirmed in a family member. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) provides information about the labs that offer genetic testing for fragile X syndrome. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. People with questions about genetic testing should speak with a health care provider or genetics professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Fecal Incontinence ?
Answer: Fecal incontinence has many causes, including
                
- diarrhea  - constipation  - muscle damage or weakness  - nerve damage  - loss of stretch in the rectum  - childbirth by vaginal delivery  - hemorrhoids and rectal prolapse  - rectocele  - inactivity
                
Diarrhea
                
Diarrhea can cause fecal incontinence. Loose stools fill the rectum quickly and are more difficult to hold than solid stools. Diarrhea increases the chance of not reaching a bathroom in time.
                
Constipation
                
Constipation can lead to large, hard stools that stretch the rectum and cause the internal sphincter muscles to relax by reflex. Watery stool builds up behind the hard stool and may leak out around the hard stool, leading to fecal incontinence.
                
The type of constipation that is most likely to lead to fecal incontinence occurs when people are unable to relax their external sphincter and pelvic floor muscles when straining to have a bowel movement, often mistakenly squeezing these muscles instead of relaxing them. This squeezing makes it difficult to pass stool and may lead to a large amount of stool in the rectum. This type of constipation, called dyssynergic defecation or disordered defecation, is a result of faulty learning. For example, children or adults who have pain when having a bowel movement may unconsciously learn to squeeze their muscles to delay the bowel movement and avoid pain.
                
Muscle Damage or Weakness
                
Injury to one or both of the sphincter muscles can cause fecal incontinence. If these muscles, called the external and internal anal sphincter muscles, are damaged or weakened, they may not be strong enough to keep the anus closed and prevent stool from leaking.
                
Trauma, childbirth injuries, cancer surgery, and hemorrhoid surgery are possible causes of injury to the sphincters. Hemorrhoids are swollen blood vessels in and around the anus and lower rectum.
                
Nerve Damage
                
The anal sphincter muscles wont open and close properly if the nerves that control them are damaged. Likewise, if the nerves that sense stool in the rectum are damaged, a person may not feel the urge to go to the bathroom. Both types of nerve damage can lead to fecal incontinence. Possible sources of nerve damage are childbirth; a long-term habit of straining to pass stool; spinal cord injury; and diseases, such as diabetes and multiple sclerosis, that affect the nerves that go to the sphincter muscles and rectum. Brain injuries from stroke, head trauma, or certain diseases can also cause fecal incontinence.
                
Loss of Stretch in the Rectum
                
Normally, the rectum stretches to hold stool until a person has a bowel movement. Rectal surgery, radiation treatment, and inflammatory bowel diseaseschronic disorders that cause irritation and sores on the lining of the digestive systemcan cause the rectal walls to become stiff. The rectum then cant stretch as much to hold stool, increasing the risk of fecal incontinence.
                
Childbirth by Vaginal Delivery
                
Childbirth sometimes causes injuries to muscles and nerves in the pelvic floor. The risk is greater if forceps are used to help deliver the baby or if an episiotomya cut in the vaginal area to prevent the babys head from tearing the vagina during birthis performed. Fecal incontinence related to childbirth can appear soon after delivery or many years later.
                
Hemorrhoids and Rectal Prolapse
                
External hemorrhoids, which develop under the skin around the anus, can prevent the anal sphincter muscles from closing completely. Rectal prolapse, a condition that causes the rectum to drop down through the anus, can also prevent the anal sphincter muscles from closing well enough to prevent leakage. Small amounts of mucus or liquid stool can then leak through the anus.
                
Rectocele
                
Rectocele is a condition that causes the rectum to protrude through the vagina. Rectocele can happen when the thin layer of muscles separating the rectum from the vagina becomes weak. For women with rectocele, straining to have a bowel movement may be less effective because rectocele reduces the amount of downward force through the anus. The result may be retention of stool in the rectum. More research is needed to be sure rectocele increases the risk of fecal incontinence.
                
Inactivity
                
People who are inactive, especially those who spend many hours a day sitting or lying down, have an increased risk of retaining a large amount of stool in the rectum. Liquid stool can then leak around the more solid stool. Frail, older adults are most likely to develop constipation-related fecal incontinence for this reason.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: what are public health agencies doing to prevent or control yersiniosis for Yersinia ?
Answer: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) monitors the frequency of Y. enterocolitica infections through the foodborne disease active surveillance network (FoodNet). In addition, CDC conducts investigations of outbreaks of yersiniosis to control them and to learn more about how to prevent these infections. CDC has collaborated in an educational campaign to increase public awareness about prevention of Y. enterocolitica infections. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration inspects imported foods and milk pasteurization plants and promotes better food preparation techniques in restaurants and food processing plants. The U.S. Department of Agriculture monitors the health of food animals and is responsible for the quality of slaughtered and processed meat. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulates and monitors the safety of our drinking water supplies.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: What are the symptoms of Childhood Ependymoma ?
Answer: The signs and symptoms of childhood ependymoma are not the same in every child. Signs and symptoms depend on the following:         - The child's age.    - Where the tumor has formed.        Signs and symptoms may be caused by childhood ependymoma or by other conditions. Check with your child's doctor if your child has any of the following:         - Frequent headaches.    -  Seizures.    - Nausea and vomiting.    - Pain or stiffness in the neck.    - Loss of balance or trouble walking.    - Weakness in the legs.    - Blurry vision.    - Back pain.    - A change in bowel function.    - Trouble urinating.    -  Confusion or irritability.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets ?
Answer: X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets is the most common form of rickets that runs in families. It affects about 1 in 20,000 newborns. Each of the other forms of hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets has been identified in only a few families.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by pyruvate kinase deficiency ?
Answer: Pyruvate kinase deficiency is the most common inherited cause of nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia. More than 500 affected families have been identified, and studies suggest that the disorder may be underdiagnosed because mild cases may not be identified.  Pyruvate kinase deficiency is found in all ethnic groups. Its prevalence has been estimated at 1 in 20,000 people of European descent. It is more common in the Old Order Amish population of Pennsylvania.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Ewing sarcoma inherited ?
Answer: Is Ewing sarcoma an inherited condition? This condition is generally not inherited but arises from a mutation in the body's cells that occurs after conception (somatic mutation). Most cases are considered to be sporadic. However, the incidence of neuroectodermal and stomach malignancies is increased among family members of patients with tumors of the Ewing sarcoma family.  A search of the medical literature did identify a very small number of cases of Ewing sarcoma among siblings. To access articles on this topic, click here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Deafness and myopia syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Deafness and myopia syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Deafness and myopia syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Conductive hearing impairment - Hematuria - Intellectual disability - Myopia - Proteinuria - Severe Myopia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebellar Degeneration ?
Answer: The NINDS funds research to find the genes involved in diseases that cause cerebellar degeneration. Discovering these genes, identifying their mutations, and understanding how the abnormal proteins they produce cause cerebellar degeneration may eventually help scientists find ways to prevent, treat, and even cure the diseases that involve cerebellar degeneration.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Boomerang dysplasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Boomerang dysplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Boomerang dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal vertebral ossification 90% Abnormality of bone mineral density 90% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 90% Abnormality of the tibia 90% Limb undergrowth 90% Narrow chest 90% Abnormality of the femur 50% Abnormality of the humerus 50% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the abdominal wall musculature 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Hydrops fetalis 50% Omphalocele 50% Polyhydramnios 50% Abnormality of the ulna 7.5% Absent radius - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Fibular aplasia - Hypoplastic iliac body - Hypoplastic nasal septum - Neonatal death - Severe short stature - Underdeveloped nasal alae - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Cholesteatoma ?
Answer: How might cholesteatoma be treated? An examination by an otolaryngologist - a doctor who specializes in head and neck conditions -  can confirm the presence of a cholesteatoma. Initial treatment may consist of a careful cleaning of the ear, antibiotics, and eardrops. Therapy aims to stop drainage in the ear by controlling the infection. Large or complicated cholesteatomas may require surgical treatment to protect the patient from serious complications.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Appendicitis ?
Answer: The appendix is a small, tube-like organ attached to the first part of the large intestine. It is located in the lower right part of the abdomen. It has no known function. A blockage inside of the appendix causes appendicitis. The blockage leads to increased pressure, problems with blood flow, and inflammation. If the blockage is not treated, the appendix can burst and spread infection into the abdomen. This causes a condition called peritonitis.    The main symptom is pain in the abdomen, often on the right side. It is usually sudden and gets worse over time. Other symptoms may include       -  Swelling in the abdomen    -  Loss of appetite    -  Nausea and vomiting    -  Constipation or diarrhea    -  Inability to pass gas    -  Low fever        Not everyone with appendicitis has all these symptoms.    Appendicitis is a medical emergency. Treatment almost always involves removing the appendix. Anyone can get appendicitis, but it is more common among people 10 to 30 years old.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What causes Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency? Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) deficiency is usually caused by a deficiency of one or more enzymes or cofactors (such as thiamine) that are needed for an important chemical reaction in the cells of the body. These enzymes or cofactors are part of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and normally convert (or aid in converting) a chemical called pyruvate to another chemical called acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA), which is one of two important chemicals the body needs to make citrate for the cells. Because pyruvate cannot be converted to acetyl-CoA, there is too much pyruvate in the cells, which then gets used to produce more lactic acid (which is toxic in large amounts) and alanine; there is also not enough citrate being made by the body. Citrate is the first step in another important group of chemical reactions called the citric acid cycle, which then cannot proceed. The body tries to make alternate pathways to produce more acetyl-CoA, but there is still not enough energy made in the body, especially in the central nervous system (CNS). The amount of energy that is deficient depends on the amount of the enzyme that is deficient. The condition is sometimes referred to as pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) deficiency because there is a "complex" of three enzymes normally used in the reaction; when any one or more of the enzymes needed for the above-described reaction are deficient, the condition results. The most common form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency is caused by mutations in the X-linked dominant E1 alpha gene; all other causes are thought to be due to mutations in recessive genes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Hereditary multiple osteochondromas ?
Answer: How might hereditary multiple osteochondromas (HMO) be treated? Currently, there is no known medical treatment for HMO. Osteochondromas are not usually removed because they stop growing around age 12. Another consideration is how close the tumor is to the affected bone's growth plate, because surgery can affect how the bone grows. Surgery may be considered, however, if an osteochondroma is causing pain, bone fracture, nerve irritation, or if the tumor continues to grow after the person's bones have stopped growing. The surgical treatment of choice is complete removal of the tumor. Depending on the location of the osteochondroma, this may be relatively simple. However, if an osteochondroma is close to nerves and blood vessels, this may make surgery difficult and risky. Surgery may also be necessary to correct painful limb abnormalities that are caused by multiple osteochondromas. Surgery may be needed to cut and realign the bones that have become deformed, which is known as osteotomy. If the legs are not equal in length, treatment may include a procedure to slow down the growth of the longer leg. Surgery may also be needed to correct the forearm deformity seen in this condition. Adults with this condition who have untreated forearm deformities usually do not have significant functional limitations. Although rare, an osteochondroma can become cancerous (malignant), which usually takes the form of a low grade chondrosarcoma. This type of malignant tumor is unlikely to spread elsewhere in the body. Higher grades of cancer can occur, but this is even more uncommon. In that case, other therapies, such as chemotherapy and radiation, may be used in treatment. GeneReviews provides more information about treatment for hereditary multiple osteochondromas. How might a malignant transformation in hereditary multiple exostoses (HME) be treated? Chondrosarcomas in a person with HME tend to be well differentiated and low grade tumors. The tumors usually grow slowly and do not readily metastasize. Surgical removal is the recommended treatment as the condrosarcomas do not respond to radiation or chemotherapy. The prognosis or long term outlook after surgical removal of the chondrosarcoma for a person with HME is good as long as the tumor has not metastasized.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Child Mental Health
Answer: Summary : It's important to recognize and treat mental illnesses in children early on. Once mental illness develops, it becomes a regular part of your child's behavior and is more difficult to treat.    But it's not always easy to know when your child has a serious problem. Everyday stresses can cause changes in your child's behavior. For example, getting a new brother or sister or going to a new school may cause a child to temporarily act out. Warning signs that it might be a more serious problem include       - Problems in more than one setting (at school, at home, with peers)    - Changes in appetite or sleep    - Social withdrawal or fear of things he or she did not used to be not afraid of    - Returning to behaviors more common in younger children, such as bedwetting    - Signs of being upset, such as sadness or tearfulness    - Signs of self-destructive behavior, such as head-banging or suddenly getting hurt often    - Repeated thoughts of death       To diagnose mental health problems, the doctor or mental health specialist looks at your child's signs and symptoms, medical history, and family history. Treatments include medicines and talk therapy.    NIH: National Institute of Mental Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Who is at risk for Iron-Deficiency Anemia? ?
Answer: Infants and Young Children
                
Infants and young children need a lot of iron to grow and develop. The iron that full-term infants have stored in their bodies is used up in the first 4 to 6 months of life.
                
Premature and low-birth-weight babies (weighing less than 5.5 pounds) are at even greater risk for iron-deficiency anemia. These babies don't have as much iron stored in their bodies as larger, full-term infants.
                
Iron-fortified baby food or iron supplements, when used properly, can help prevent iron-deficiency anemia in infants and young children. Talk with your child's doctor about your child's diet.
                
Young children who drink a lot of cow's milk may be at risk for iron-deficiency anemia. Milk is low in iron, and too much milk may take the place of iron-rich foods in the diet. Too much milk also may prevent children's bodies from absorbing iron from other foods.
                
Children who have lead in their blood also may be at risk for iron-deficiency anemia. Lead can interfere with the body's ability to make hemoglobin. Lead may get into the body from breathing in lead dust, eating lead in paint or soil, or drinking water that contains lead.
                
Teens
                
Teens are at risk for iron-deficiency anemia if they're underweight or have chronic (ongoing) illnesses. Teenage girls who have heavy periods also are at increased risk for the condition.
                
Women
                
Women of childbearing age are at higher risk for iron-deficiency anemia because of blood loss during their monthly periods. About 1 in 5 women of childbearing age has iron-deficiency anemia.
                
Pregnant women also are at higher risk for the condition because they need twice as much iron as usual. The extra iron is needed for increased blood volume and for the fetus' growth.
                
About half of all pregnant women develop iron-deficiency anemia. The condition can increase a pregnant woman's risk for a premature or low-birth-weight baby.
                
Adults Who Have Internal Bleeding
                
Adults who have internal bleeding, such as intestinal bleeding, can develop iron-deficiency anemia due to blood loss. Certain conditions, such as colon cancer and bleeding ulcers, can cause blood loss. Some medicines, such as aspirin, also can cause internal bleeding.
                
Other At-Risk Groups
                
People who get kidney dialysis treatment may develop iron-deficiency anemia. This is because blood is lost during dialysis. Also, the kidneys are no longer able to make enough of a hormone that the body needs to produce red blood cells.
                
People who have gastric bypass surgery also may develop iron-deficiency anemia. This type of surgery can prevent the body from absorbing enough iron.
                
Certain eating patterns or habits may put you at higher risk for iron-deficiency anemia. This can happen if you:
                
Follow a diet that excludes meat and fish, which are the best sources of iron. However, vegetarian diets can provide enough iron if you eat the right foods. For example, good nonmeat sources of iron include iron-fortified breads and cereals, beans, tofu, dried fruits, and spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables.
                
Eat poorly because of money, social, health, or other problems.
                
Follow a very low-fat diet over a long time. Some higher fat foods, like meat, are the best sources of iron.
                
Follow a high-fiber diet. Large amounts of fiber can slow the absorption of iron.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Cystic Fibrosis ?
Answer: Cystic fibrosis (SIS-tik fi-BRO-sis), or CF, is an inherited disease of the secretory (see-KREH-tor-ee) glands. Secretory glands include glands that make mucus and sweat.
                
"Inherited" means the disease is passed from parents to children through genes. People who have CF inherit two faulty genes for the diseaseone from each parent. The parents likely don't have the disease themselves.
                
CF mainly affects the lungs, pancreas, liver, intestines, sinuses, and sex organs.
                
Overview
                
Mucus is a substance made by tissues that line some organs and body cavities, such as the lungs and nose. Normally, mucus is a slippery, watery substance. It keeps the linings of certain organs moist and prevents them from drying out or getting infected.
                
If you have CF, your mucus becomes thick and sticky. It builds up in your lungs and blocks your airways. (Airways are tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs.)
                
The buildup of mucus makes it easy for bacteria to grow. This leads to repeated, serious lung infections. Over time, these infections can severely damage your lungs.
                
The thick, sticky mucus also can block tubes, or ducts, in your pancreas (an organ in your abdomen). As a result, the digestive enzymes that your pancreas makes can't reach your small intestine.
                
These enzymes help break down food. Without them, your intestines can't fully absorb fats and proteins. This can cause vitamin deficiency and malnutrition because nutrients pass through your body without being used. You also may have bulky stools, intestinal gas, a swollen belly from severe constipation, and pain or discomfort.
                
CF also causes your sweat to become very salty. Thus, when you sweat, you lose large amounts of salt. This can upset the balance of minerals in your blood and cause many health problems. Examples of these problems include dehydration (a lack of fluid in your body), increased heart rate, fatigue (tiredness), weakness, decreased blood pressure, heat stroke, and, rarely, death.
                
If you or your child has CF, you're also at higher risk for diabetes or two bone-thinning conditions called osteoporosis (OS-te-o-po-RO-sis) and osteopenia (OS-te-o-PEE-nee-uh).
                
CF also causes infertility in men, and the disease can make it harder for women to get pregnant. (The term "infertility" refers to the inability to have children.)
                
Outlook
                
The symptoms and severity of CF vary. If you or your child has the disease, you may have serious lung and digestive problems. If the disease is mild, symptoms may not show up until the teen or adult years.
                
The symptoms and severity of CF also vary over time. Sometimes you'll have few symptoms. Other times, your symptoms may become more severe. As the disease gets worse, you'll have more severe symptoms more often.
                
Lung function often starts to decline in early childhood in people who have CF. Over time, damage to the lungs can cause severe breathing problems. Respiratory failure is the most common cause of death in people who have CF.
                
As treatments for CF continue to improve, so does life expectancy for those who have the disease. Today, some people who have CF are living into their forties or fifties, or longer.
                
Early treatment for CF can improve your quality of life and increase your lifespan. Treatments may include nutritional and respiratory therapies, medicines, exercise, and other treatments.
                
Your doctor also may recommend pulmonary rehabilitation (PR). PR is a broad program that helps improve the well-being of people who have chronic (ongoing) breathing problems.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What causes Cystocele ?
Answer: A cystocele occurs when the muscles and supportive tissues between a womans bladder and vagina weaken and stretch, letting the bladder sag from its normal position and bulge into the vagina or through the vaginal opening. In a cystocele, the bladder tissue remains covered by the vaginal skin. A cystocele may result from damage to the muscles and tissues that hold the pelvic organs up inside the pelvis. A womans pelvic organs include the vagina, cervix, uterus, bladder, urethra, and small intestine. Damage to or weakening of the pelvic muscles and supportive tissues may occur after vaginal childbirth and with conditions that repeatedly strain or increase pressure in the pelvic area, such as
                
- repetitive straining for bowel movements  - constipation  - chronic or violent coughing  - heavy lifting  - being overweight or obese
                
A womans chances of developing a cystocele increase with age, possibly because of weakening muscles and supportive tissues from aging. Whether menopause increases a womans chances of developing a cystocele is unclear.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Teenage Pregnancy ?
Answer: Most teenage girls don't plan to get pregnant, but many do. Teen pregnancies carry extra health risks to both the mother and the baby. Often, teens don't get prenatal care soon enough, which can lead to problems later on. They have a higher risk for pregnancy-related high blood pressure and its complications. Risks for the baby include premature birth and a low birth weight.    If you're a pregnant teen, you can help yourself and your baby by       - Getting regular prenatal care    - Taking your prenatal vitamins for your health and to prevent some birth defects    - Avoiding smoking, alcohol, and drugs    - Using a condom, if you are having sex, to prevent sexually transmitted diseases that could hurt your baby
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Carpenter syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Carpenter syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Carpenter syndrome 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Carpenter syndrome 2  - Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children (UK): Craniosynostosis Information  - Johns Hopkins Medicine: Craniosynostosis Treatment Options  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Craniosynostosis Repair  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Dextrocardia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is fragile X syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Fragile X syndrome is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. (The Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome.) The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. X-linked dominant means that in females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of a gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females.  In women, the FMR1 gene premutation on the X chromosome can expand to more than 200 CGG repeats in cells that develop into eggs. This means that women with the premutation have an increased risk of having a child with fragile X syndrome. By contrast, the premutation in men does not expand to more than 200 repeats as it is passed to the next generation. Men pass the premutation only to their daughters. Their sons receive a Y chromosome, which does not include the FMR1 gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Health
Answer: Summary : Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from:       - Genetics    - Environmental factors    - Access to care    - Cultural factors       On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Pseudoangiomatous stromal hyperplasia ?
Answer: Pseudoangiomatous stromal hyperplasia (PASH) is a type of non-cancerous breast lesion. It typically affects women in the reproductive age group. The size of the lesion varies, but small microscopic PASH is much more common than larger masses. Microscopic PASH is often an incidental finding in breast biopsies done for other non-cancerous or cancerous lesions. Tumorous PASH presents as a firm, painless breast mass or a dense region on a mammogram.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Mixed connective tissue disease ?
Answer: Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is a rare autoimmune disorder that is characterized by features commonly seen in three different connective tissue disorders: systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, and polymyositis. Some affected people may also have symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. Although MCTD can affect people of all ages, it appears to be most common in women under age 30. Signs and symptoms vary but may include Raynaud's phenomenon; arthritis; heart, lung and skin abnormalities; kidney disease; muscle weakness, and dysfunction of the esophagus. The cause of MCTD is currently unknown. There is no cure but certain medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), corticosteroids and immunosuppresive drugs may help manage the symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is the outlook for Aphasia ?
Answer: The outcome of aphasia is difficult to predict given the wide range of variability of the condition. Generally, people who are younger or have less extensive brain damage fare better. The location of the injury is also important and is another clue to prognosis. In general, people tend to recover skills in language comprehension more completely than those skills involving expression.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Tremor hereditary essential, 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Tremor hereditary essential, 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tremor hereditary essential, 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Upper limb postural tremor - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Tetramelic monodactyly ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Tetramelic monodactyly? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tetramelic monodactyly. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Split hand 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Monodactyly (feet) - Monodactyly (hands) - Split foot - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Thumb stiff brachydactyly mental retardation ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Thumb stiff brachydactyly mental retardation? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Thumb stiff brachydactyly mental retardation. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Abnormality of the thumb 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Obesity 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Intellectual disability - Type A1 brachydactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is WAGR syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of WAGR syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Some affected individuals inherit a chromosome 11 with a deleted segment from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with WAGR syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the short arm of chromosome 11, which results in an increased risk of Wilms tumor, aniridia, genitourinary anomalies, and intellectual disability.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by 18q deletion syndrome ?
Answer: 18q deletion syndrome occurs in an estimated 1 in 40,000 newborns. This condition is found in people of all ethnic backgrounds.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Stiff person syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Stiff person syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Stiff person syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adult onset - Agoraphobia - Anemia - Anxiety - Asymmetric limb muscle stiffness - Autoimmunity - Axial muscle stiffness - Depression - Exaggerated startle response - Fever - Frequent falls - Hyperhidrosis - Hyperreflexia - Hypertension - Lumbar hyperlordosis - Myoclonic spasms - Opisthotonus - Proximal limb muscle stiffness - Rigidity - Sporadic - Tachycardia - Vitiligo - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Vulvar Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with vulvar cancer.    - Four types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery     - Radiation therapy     - Chemotherapy     - Biologic therapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.     - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with vulvar cancer.
                    Different types of treatments are available for patients with vulvar cancer. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Four types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery     Surgery is the most common treatment for vulvar cancer. The goal of surgery is to remove all the cancer without any loss of the woman's sexual function. One of the following types of surgery may be done:            -  Laser surgery: A surgical procedure that uses a laser beam (a narrow beam of intense light) as a knife to make bloodless cuts in tissue or to remove a surface lesion such as a tumor.     -  Wide local excision: A surgical procedure to remove the cancer and some of the normal tissue around the cancer.     -  Radical local excision: A surgical procedure to remove the cancer and a large amount of normal tissue around it. Nearby lymph nodes in the groin may also be removed.      - Ultrasound surgical aspiration (USA): A surgical procedure to break the tumor up into small pieces using very fine vibrations. The small pieces of tumor are washed away and removed by suction. This procedure causes less damage to nearby tissue.     - Vulvectomy: A surgical procedure to remove part or all of the vulva:                  -  Skinning vulvectomy: The top layer of vulvar skin where the cancer is found is removed. Skin grafts from other parts of the body may be needed to cover the area where the skin was removed.       -  Modified radical vulvectomy: Surgery to remove part of the vulva. Nearby lymph nodes may also be removed.       -  Radical vulvectomy: Surgery to remove the entire vulva. Nearby lymph nodes are also removed.                -  Pelvic exenteration: A surgical procedure to remove the lower colon, rectum, and bladder. The cervix, vagina, ovaries, and nearby lymph nodes are also removed. Artificial openings (stoma) are made for urine and stool to flow from the body into a collection bag.           Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, some patients may have chemotherapy or radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. External and internal radiation therapy are used to treat vulvar cancer, and external radiation therapy may also be used as palliative therapy to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life.       Chemotherapy    Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, a body cavity such as the abdomen, or onto the skin, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.     Topical chemotherapy for vulvar cancer may be applied to the skin in a cream or lotion.     See Drugs Approved to Treat Vulvar Cancer for more information.       Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.      Imiquimod is a biologic therapy that may be used to treat vulvar lesions and is applied to the skin in a cream.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.   It is important to have regular follow-up exams to check for recurrent vulvar cancer.
                
                 
            							Treatment Options by Stage
                    Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VIN): Treatment of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) may include the following:         - Removal of single lesions or wide local excision.    -  Laser surgery.    - Ultrasound surgical aspiration.    -  Skinning vulvectomy with or without a skin graft.    -  Biologic therapy with topical imiquimod.
                    - Stage I Vulvar Cancer: Treatment of stage I vulvar cancer may include the following:         -  Wide local excision for lesions that are less than 1 millimeter deep..    -  Radical local excision and removal of nearby lymph nodes.    - Radical local excision and sentinel lymph node biopsy. If cancer is found in the sentinel lymph node, nearby lymph nodes are also removed.    -  Radiation therapy for patients who cannot have surgery.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I vulvar cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                    - Stage II Vulvar Cancer: Treatment of stage II vulvar cancer may include the following:         -  Radical local excision and removal of nearby lymph nodes.    -  Modified radical vulvectomy or radical vulvectomy for large tumors. Nearby lymph nodes may be removed. Radiation therapy may be given after surgery.    - Radical local excision and sentinel lymph node biopsy. If cancer is found in the sentinel lymph node, nearby lymph nodes are also removed.    - Radiation therapy for patients who cannot have surgery.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage II vulvar cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                    - Stage III Vulvar Cancer: Treatment of stage III vulvar cancer may include the following:         -  Modified radical vulvectomy or radical vulvectomy. Nearby lymph nodes may be removed. Radiation therapy may be given after surgery.    - Radiation therapy or chemotherapy and radiation therapy followed by surgery.    - Radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy for patients who cannot have surgery.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III vulvar cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                    - Stage IV Vulvar Cancer: Treatment of stage IVA vulvar cancer may include the following:         -  Radical vulvectomy and pelvic exenteration.    - Radical vulvectomy followed by radiation therapy.    - Radiation therapy or chemotherapy and radiation therapy followed by surgery.    - Radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy for patients who cannot have surgery.        There is no standard treatment for stage IVB vulvar cancer. Treatment may include a clinical trial of a new treatment.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage IVB vulvar cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                    
                
                  
								            Treatment Options for Recurrent Vulvar Cancer
								            Treatment of recurrent vulvar cancer may include the following:  - Wide local excision with or without radiation therapy to treat cancer that has come back in the same area.
								  -  Radical vulvectomy and pelvic exenteration to treat cancer that has come back in the same area.
								  -  Chemotherapy and radiation therapy with or without surgery.
								  -  Radiation therapy followed by surgery or chemotherapy.
								  -  Radiation therapy as palliative treatment to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life.
								  -  A clinical trial of a new treatment. 
								Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent vulvar cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome ?
Answer: Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is a condition characterized by abnormal electrical pathways in the heart that cause a disruption of the heart's normal rhythm (arrhythmia).  The heartbeat is controlled by electrical signals that move through the heart in a highly coordinated way. A specialized cluster of cells called the atrioventricular node conducts electrical impulses from the heart's upper chambers (the atria) to the lower chambers (the ventricles). Impulses move through the atrioventricular node during each heartbeat, stimulating the ventricles to contract slightly later than the atria.  People with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome are born with an extra connection in the heart, called an accessory pathway, that allows electrical signals to bypass the atrioventricular node and move from the atria to the ventricles faster than usual. The accessory pathway may also transmit electrical impulses abnormally from the ventricles back to the atria. This extra connection can disrupt the coordinated movement of electrical signals through the heart, leading to an abnormally fast heartbeat (tachycardia) and other arrhythmias. Resulting symptoms include dizziness, a sensation of fluttering or pounding in the chest (palpitations), shortness of breath, and fainting (syncope). In rare cases, arrhythmias associated with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome can lead to cardiac arrest and sudden death. The most common arrhythmia associated with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is called paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia.  Complications of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome can occur at any age, although some individuals born with an accessory pathway in the heart never experience any health problems associated with the condition.  Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome often occurs with other structural abnormalities of the heart or underlying heart disease. The most common heart defect associated with the condition is Ebstein anomaly, which affects the valve that allows blood to flow from the right atrium to the right ventricle (the tricuspid valve). Additionally, Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome can be a component of several other genetic syndromes, including hypokalemic periodic paralysis (a condition that causes episodes of extreme muscle weakness), Pompe disease (a disorder characterized by the storage of excess glycogen), and tuberous sclerosis (a condition that results in the growth of noncancerous tumors in many parts of the body).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Liver failure acute infantile ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Liver failure acute infantile? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Liver failure acute infantile. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abdominal distention - Abnormality of the coagulation cascade - Acute hepatic failure - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Feeding difficulties in infancy - Hepatomegaly - Hyperbilirubinemia - Increased serum lactate - Jaundice - Lactic acidosis - Macrovesicular hepatic steatosis - Microvesicular hepatic steatosis - Mitochondrial respiratory chain defects - Muscular hypotonia - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Ataxia Overview  - Gene Review: Gene Review: VLDLR-Associated Cerebellar Hypoplasia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Dysequilibrium syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency:  - Baby's First Test  - Genetic Testing Registry: Deficiency of malonyl-CoA decarboxylase   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) primary macronodular adrenal hyperplasia ?
Answer: Primary macronodular adrenal hyperplasia (PMAH) is a disorder characterized by multiple lumps (nodules) in the adrenal glands, which are small hormone-producing glands located on top of each kidney. These nodules, which usually are found in both adrenal glands (bilateral) and vary in size, cause adrenal gland enlargement (hyperplasia) and result in the production of higher-than-normal levels of the hormone cortisol. Cortisol is an important hormone that suppresses inflammation and protects the body from physical stress such as infection or trauma through several mechanisms including raising blood sugar levels.  PMAH typically becomes evident in a person's forties or fifties. It is considered a form of Cushing syndrome, which is characterized by increased levels of cortisol resulting from one of many possible causes. These increased cortisol levels lead to weight gain in the face and upper body, fragile skin, bone loss, fatigue, and other health problems. However, some people with PMAH do not experience these signs and symptoms and are said to have subclinical Cushing syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by primary spontaneous pneumothorax ?
Answer: Primary spontaneous pneumothorax is more common in men than in women. This condition occurs in 7.4 to 18 per 100,000 men each year and 1.2 to 6 per 100,000 women each year.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Diabetic Retinopathy? ?
Answer: All people with diabetes -- both type 1 and type 2 -- are at risk for diabetic retinopathy. People with diabetes are also at increased risk for cataract and glaucoma. That's why everyone with diabetes should get a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once a year. Between 40 to 45 percent of Americans diagnosed with diabetes have some stage of diabetic retinopathy. If you have diabetic retinopathy, your doctor can recommend treatment to help prevent its progression. See how to find an eye care professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) retinal arterial macroaneurysm with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis ?
Answer: Retinal arterial macroaneurysm with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis (RAMSVPS) is a disorder that affects blood vessels in the eyes and heart. The condition generally becomes apparent in infancy or childhood.  RAMSVPS damages the arteries in the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye (the retina). These arteries gradually develop multiple small bulges called beading. Eventually, larger bulges in the blood vessel walls (macroaneurysms) occur. These macroaneurysms can tear (rupture), leading to bleeding that can spread into other areas of the eye and cause vision loss.  People with RAMSVPS also have a heart condition called supravalvular pulmonic stenosis. Pulmonic stenosis is a narrowing that affects the pulmonic valve between the heart and the lungs. The term "supravalvular" means that the narrowing occurs just above the valve, in a blood vessel called the pulmonary artery. Supravalvular pulmonic stenosis impairs blood flow into the lungs, where blood normally picks up oxygen for distribution to cells and tissues throughout the body. As a result, less oxygen is carried through the bloodstream, leading to signs and symptoms that include shortness of breath; a rapid heartbeat; fatigue; and swelling in the face, feet, or abdomen.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Congenital mirror movement disorder ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Congenital mirror movement disorder? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Congenital mirror movement disorder. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Incomplete penetrance 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bimanual synkinesia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Loeys-Dietz syndrome ?
Answer: The four types of Loeys-Dietz syndrome are distinguished by their genetic cause: mutations in the TGFBR1 gene cause type I, mutations in the TGFBR2 gene cause type II, mutations in the SMAD3 gene cause type III, and mutations in the TGFB2 gene cause type IV. These four genes play a role in cell signaling that promotes growth and development of the body's tissues. This signaling pathway also helps with bone and blood vessel development and plays a part in the formation of the extracellular matrix, an intricate lattice of proteins and other molecules that forms in the spaces between cells.  Mutations in the TGFBR1, TGFBR2, TGFB2, and SMAD3 genes result in the production of proteins with little or no function. Even though these proteins have severely reduced function, cell signaling occurs at an even greater intensity than normal. Researchers speculate that the activity of proteins in this signaling pathway is increased to compensate for the protein whose function is reduced; however, the exact mechanism responsible for the increase in signaling is unclear. The overactive signaling pathway disrupts the development of connective tissue, the extracellular matrix, and various body systems, leading to the varied signs and symptoms of Loeys-Dietz syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is a genetic condition characterized by muscle weakness that begins in adulthood, typically after age 40. The first symptom in people with this disorder is usually droopy eyelids (ptosis), followed by difficulty swallowing (dysphagia). The swallowing difficulties begin with food, but as the condition progresses, liquids can be difficult to swallow as well. Many people with this condition have weakness and wasting (atrophy) of the tongue. These problems with food intake may cause malnutrition. Some affected individuals also have weakness in other facial muscles.  Individuals with oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy frequently have weakness in the muscles near the center of the body (proximal muscles), particularly muscles in the upper legs and hips. The weakness progresses slowly over time, and people may need the aid of a cane or a walker. Rarely, affected individuals need wheelchair assistance.  There are two types of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, which are distinguished by their pattern of inheritance. They are known as the autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive types.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Progressive deafness with stapes fixation ?
Answer: Progressive deafness with stapes fixation, also known as Thies Reis syndrome, is a form of conductive or mixed hearing loss caused by fixation of the stapes. The stapes is one of the tiny bones in the middle ear. It rests in the entrance to the inner ear, allowing sounds to pass to the inner ear. If it becomes fixated, sound waves cannot pass through to the inner ear, resulting in loss of hearing. This condition may be associated with a number of conditions, including ostosclerosis, Paget's disease and osteogenesis imperfecta, or it may be found in isolation. It may also result from chronic ear infections (otitis media with tympanosclerosis). The progression of hearing loss is generally slow, rarely profound, and usually resolves following treatment. Conductive hearing loss can be restored through surgery or hearing aids. Sensorineural hearing loss can be managed with hearing aids or cochlear implants.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Leber hereditary optic neuropathy inherited ?
Answer: How is Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) inherited? Leber hereditary optic neuropathy is an inherited condition that has a mitochondrial pattern of inheritance. The gene mutations that cause this condition are found in the mitochondrial DNA. Mitochondria are inherited from a person's mother, and as a result, only females pass mitochondrial conditions on to their children. Men can be affected, but they cannot pass the condition on to their children. Often, people who develop the features of Leber hereditary optic neuropathy have no family history of the condition. Because a person may carry a mitochondrial DNA mutation without experiencing any signs or symptoms, it is hard to predict which members of a family who carry a mutation will eventually develop vision loss or other medical problems associated with Leber hereditary optic neuropathy. It is important to note that all females with a mitochondrial DNA mutation, even those who do not have any signs or symptoms, will pass the genetic change to their children.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Ainhum ?
Answer: Ainhum is the autoamputation of a finger or toe as a result of a fibrotic band that constricts the finger or toe until it falls off. Ainhum most often affects the fifth toe on both feet. Ainhum is believed to be triggered by some sort of trauma, but the exact reason why it happens is not well understood. The condition mainly affects people that live in tropical regions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Brody myopathy ?
Answer: Mutations in the ATP2A1 gene cause Brody myopathy. The ATP2A1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum calcium-ATPase 1 (SERCA1). The SERCA1 enzyme is found in skeletal muscle cells, specifically in the membrane of a structure called the sarcoplasmic reticulum. This structure plays a major role in muscle contraction and relaxation by storing and releasing positively charged calcium atoms (calcium ions). When calcium ions are transported out of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, muscles contract; when calcium ions are transported into the sarcoplasmic reticulum, muscles relax. The SERCA1 enzyme transports calcium ions from the cell into the sarcoplasmic reticulum, triggering muscle relaxation.  ATP2A1 gene mutations lead to the production of a SERCA1 enzyme with decreased or no function. As a result, calcium ions are slow to enter the sarcoplasmic reticulum and muscle relaxation is delayed. After exercise or strenuous activity, during which the muscles rapidly contract and relax, people with Brody myopathy develop muscle cramps because their muscles cannot fully relax.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Heart Attack ?
Answer: Very common. Each year, more than 1 million people in the U.S. have a heart attack and about half of them die. About one-half of those who die do so within 1 hour of the start of symptoms and before reaching the hospital.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) COPD ?
Answer: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, is a progressive lung disease in which the airways of the lungs become damaged, making it hard to breathe. You may also have heard COPD called other names, like emphysema or chronic bronchitis. In people who have COPD, the airways that carry air in and out of the lungs are partially blocked, making it difficult to get air in and out. COPD is a major cause of death and illness throughout the world. It kills more than 120,000 Americans each year. That's one death every 4 minutes. How COPD Affects Airways The "airways" are the tubes that carry air in and out of the lungs through the nose and mouth. The airways of the lungs branch out like an upside-down tree. At the end of each branch are many small, balloon-like air sacs. In healthy people, the airways and air sacs are elastic (stretchy). When you breathe in, each air sac fills up with air, like a small balloon, and when you breathe out, the balloon deflates and the air goes out. In people with COPD, the airways and air sacs lose their shape and become floppy. Less air gets in and less air goes out of the airways because - The airways and air sacs lose their elasticity like an old rubber band.  - The walls between many of the air sacs are destroyed.  - The walls of the airways become thick and inflamed or swollen.  - Cells in the airways make more mucus or sputum than usual, which tends to clog the airways. The airways and air sacs lose their elasticity like an old rubber band. The walls between many of the air sacs are destroyed. The walls of the airways become thick and inflamed or swollen. Cells in the airways make more mucus or sputum than usual, which tends to clog the airways. COPD Develops Slowly, Has No Cure When COPD is severe, shortness of breath and other symptoms of COPD can get in the way of even the most basic tasks, such as doing light housework, taking a walk, even washing and dressing. COPD develops slowly, and it may be many years before you notice symptoms like feeling short of breath. Most of the time, COPD is diagnosed in middle-aged or older people. There is no cure for COPD. The damage to your airways and lungs cannot be reversed, but there are things you can do to control the disabling effects of the disease. COPD is not contagious. You cannot catch it from someone else.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Behcet's Disease ?
Answer: Behcet's disease is a rare, chronic inflammatory disorder. The cause of Behcet's disease is unknown, but current research suggests that both genetic and environmental factors play a role. Behcet's disease generally begins when individuals are in their 20s or 30s, although it can happen at any age. It tends to occur more often in men than in women. Symptoms of Behcet's disease include recurrent ulcers in the mouth (resembling canker sores) and on the genitals, and eye inflammation. The disorder may also cause various types of skin lesions, arthritis, bowel inflammation, meningitis (inflammation of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord), and cranial nerve palsies. Behcet's is a multi-system disease; it may involve all organs and affect the central nervous system, causing memory loss and impaired speech, balance, and movement.
                
The effects of the disease may include blindness, stroke, swelling of the spinal cord, and intestinal complications. The disease is common in the Middle East, particularly in Turkey, and in Far Eastern nations such as Japan and Korean, but is less common in the United States.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Darier disease ?
Answer: Darier disease is a skin condition characterized by wart-like blemishes on the body. The blemishes are usually yellowish in color, hard to the touch, mildly greasy, and can emit a strong odor. The most common sites for blemishes are the scalp, forehead, upper arms, chest, back, knees, elbows, and behind the ear. The mucous membranes can also be affected, with blemishes on the roof of the mouth (palate), tongue, inside of the cheek, gums, and throat. Other features of Darier disease include nail abnormalities, such as red and white streaks in the nails with an irregular texture, and small pits in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet.  The wart-like blemishes characteristic of Darier disease usually appear in late childhood to early adulthood. The severity of the disease varies over time; affected people experience flare-ups alternating with periods when they have fewer blemishes. The appearance of the blemishes is influenced by environmental factors. Most people with Darier disease will develop more blemishes during the summertime when they are exposed to heat and humidity. UV light; minor injury or friction, such as rubbing or scratching; and ingestion of certain medications can also cause an increase in blemishes.  On occasion, people with Darier disease may have neurological disorders such as mild intellectual disability, epilepsy, and depression. Learning and behavior difficulties have also been reported in people with Darier disease. Researchers do not know if these conditions, which are common in the general population, are associated with the genetic changes that cause Darier disease, or if they are coincidental. Some researchers believe that behavioral problems might be linked to the social stigma experienced by people with numerous skin blemishes.  A form of Darier disease known as the linear or segmental form is characterized by blemishes on localized areas of the skin. The blemishes are not as widespread as they are in typical Darier disease. Some people with the linear form of this condition have the nail abnormalities that are seen in people with classic Darier disease, but these abnormalities occur only on one side of the body.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase deficiency ?
Answer: Mutations in the OXCT1 gene cause SCOT deficiency. The OXCT1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase (SCOT). The SCOT enzyme is made in the energy-producing centers of cells (mitochondria). The enzyme plays a role in the breakdown of ketones, which are an important source of energy during fasting or when energy demands are increased, such as during illness or when exercising.  OXCT1 gene mutations result in the production of a SCOT enzyme with little or no function. A reduction in the amount of functional enzyme leads to an inability to break down ketones, resulting in decreased energy production and an elevated level of ketones in the blood. If these signs become severe, a ketoacidotic attack can occur. Individuals with mutations that create an enzyme with partial function are still prone to ketoacidotic attacks, but are less likely to have persistent ketosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the complications of Nephrotic Syndrome in Adults ?
Answer: The loss of different proteins from the body can lead to a variety of complications in people with nephrotic syndrome. Blood clots can form when proteins that normally prevent them are lost through the urine. Blood clots can block the flow of blood and oxygen through a blood vessel. Loss of immunoglobulinsimmune system proteins that help fight disease and infectionleads to an increased risk of infections. These infections include pneumonia, a lung infection; cellulitis, a skin infection; peritonitis, an abdominal infection; and meningitis, a brain and spine infection. Medications given to treat nephrotic syndrome can also increase the risk of these infections. Other complications of nephrotic syndrome include
                
- hypothyroidisma condition in which the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormone to meet the bodys needs  - anemiaa condition in which red blood cells are fewer or smaller than normal, which means less oxygen is carried to the bodys cells  - coronary artery disease, also called coronary heart diseaseheart disease caused by narrowing of the arteries that supply blood to the heart  - high blood pressure, also called hypertensiona condition in which blood flows through the blood vessels with a force greater than normal  - acute kidney injurysudden and temporary loss of kidney function
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis inherited ?
Answer: Is hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis inherited? Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) may be inherited or acquired (due to non-genetic factors). Familial HLH is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a change (mutation) in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. Acquired HLH is not inherited. The non-genetic causes of HLH include: infection, medications that suppress the immune system, autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiencies, certain types of cancer and/or metabolic diseases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Leukodystrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders, including the leukodystrophies. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Who is at risk for Rectal Cancer? ?
Answer: Health history affects the risk of developing rectal cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk for colorectal cancer.    Risk factors for colorectal cancer include the following:            - Having a family history of colon or rectal cancer in a first-degree relative (parent, sibling, or child).     - Having a personal history of cancer of the colon, rectum, or ovary.     - Having a personal history of high-risk adenomas (colorectal polyps that are 1 centimeter or larger in size or that have cells that look abnormal under a microscope).     - Having inherited changes in certain genes that increase the risk of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) or Lynch syndrome (hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer).     - Having a personal history of chronic ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease for 8 years or more.     - Having three or more alcoholic drinks per day.     - Smoking cigarettes.     - Being black.     - Being obese.           Older age is a main risk factor for most cancers. The chance of getting cancer increases as you get older.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: what is cdc doing to address visa and vrsa?
Answer: On this Page General Information about VISA/VRSA What is Staphylococcus aureus? How do VISA and VRSA get their names? What should a patient do if they suspect they have a Staph, MRSA, VISA, or VRSA infection? Are VISA and VRSA infections treatable? How can the spread of VISA and VRSA be prevented? What should a person do if a family member or close friend has VISA or VRSA? What is CDC doing to address VISA and VRSA? Recommendations and Guidelines General Information about VISA/VRSA For more images of this bacterium, search the Public Health Image Library Vancomycin [vankmsin]-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus [staffulukawkus  awreeus] (also called VISA) and Vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (also called VRSA) are specific types of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria. However, as of October 2010, all VISA and VRSA isolates have been susceptible to other Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drugs. Persons who develop this type of staph infection may have underlying health conditions (such as diabetes and kidney disease), tubes going into their bodies (such as catheters), previous infections with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and recent exposure to vancomycin and other antimicrobial agents. What is Staphylococcus aureus? Staphylococcus aureus is a bacterium commonly found on the skin and in the nose of about 30% of individuals. Most of the time, staph does not cause any harm. These infections can look like pimples, boils, or other skin conditions and most are able to be treated. Sometimes staph bacteria can get into the bloodstream and cause serious infections which can be fatal, including: Bacteremia or sepsis when bacteria spread to the bloodstream usually as a result of using catheters or having surgery. Pneumonia which predominantly affects people with underlying lung disease including those on mechanical ventilators. Endocarditis (infection of the heart valves) which can lead to heart failure. Osteomyelitis (bone infection) which can be caused by staph bacteria traveling in the bloodstream or put there by direct contact such as following trauma (puncture wound of foot or intravenous (IV) drug abuse). Top of page How do VISA and VRSA get their names? Staph bacteria are classified as VISA or VRSA based on laboratory tests. Laboratories perform tests to determine if staph bacteria are resistant to antimicrobial agents that might be used for treatment of infections. For vancomycin and other antimicrobial agents, laboratories determine how much of the agent it requires to inhibit the growth of the organism in a test tube. The result of the test is usually expressed as a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) or the minimum amount of antimicrobial agent that inhibits bacterial growth in the test tube. Therefore, staph bacteria are classified as VISA if the MIC for vancomycin is 4-8g/ml, and classified as VRSA if the vancomycin MIC is 16g/ml. Top of page What should a patient do if they suspect they have a staph, MRSA, VISA, or VRSA infection? See a healthcare provider. Top of page Are VISA and VRSA infections treatable? Yes. As of October 2010, all VISA and VRSA isolates have been susceptible to several Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drugs. Top of page How can the spread of VISA and VRSA be prevented? Use of appropriate infection control practices (such as wearing gloves before and after contact with infectious body substances and adherence to hand hygiene) by healthcare personnel can reduce the spread of VISA and VRSA. Top of page What should a person do if a family member or close friend has VISA or VRSA? VISA and VRSA are types of antibiotic-resistant staph bacteria. Therefore, as with all staph bacteria, spread occurs among people having close physical contact with infected patients or contaminated material, such as bandages. Persons having close physical contact with infected patients while they are outside of the healthcare setting should: (1) keep their hands clean by washing thoroughly with soap and water, and (2) avoid contact with other people's wounds or material contaminated from wounds. If they go to the hospital to visit a friend or family member who is infected with VISA or VRSA , they must follow the hospital's recommended precautions. Top of page What is CDC doing to address VISA and VRSA? In addition to providing guidance for clinicians and infection control personnel, CDC is also working with state and local health agencies, healthcare facilities, and clinical microbiology laboratories to ensure that laboratories are using proper methods to detect VISA and VRSA. Top of page Recommendations and Guidelines CDC issued a Clinical Reminder, in 2010, which serves as a reminder about the important role of clinical laboratories in the diagnosis of VRSA cases to ensure prompt recognition, isolation, and management by infection control personnel. Investigation and Control of Vancomycin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA) [PDF - 300 KB] - This document is a guide to conducting a public health investigation of patients from whom vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VRSA, vancomycin MIC  16 g/ml) has been isolated. The information reflects the experience gained from field investigations of the first fourteen VRSA identified in the United States. Top of page
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: Who is at risk for Heart Disease in Women? ?
Answer: Certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk forcoronary heart disease(CHD). These conditions are known as risk factors. Risk factors also increase the chance that existing CHD will worsen.
                
Women generally have the same CHD risk factors as men. However, some risk factors may affect women differently than men. For example, diabetes raises the risk of CHD more in women. Also, some risk factors, such as birth control pills and menopause, only affect women.
                
There are many known CHD risk factors. Your risk for CHD andheart attackrises with the number of risk factors you have and their severity. Risk factors tend to "gang up" and worsen each other's effects.
                
Having just one risk factor doubles your risk for CHD. Having two risk factors increases your risk for CHD fourfold. Having three or more risk factors increases your risk for CHD more than tenfold.
                
Also, some risk factors, such as smoking and diabetes, put you at greater risk for CHD and heart attack than others.
                
More than 75 percent of women aged 40 to 60 have one or more risk factors for CHD. Many risk factors start during childhood; some even develop within the first 10 years of life. You can control most risk factors, but some you can't.
                
For more information about CHD risk factors, go to the Health Topics Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factorsarticle. To find out whether you're at risk for CHD, talk with your doctor or health care provider.
                
Risk Factors You Can Control
                
Smoking
                
Smoking is the most powerful risk factor that women can control. Smoking tobacco or long-term exposure to secondhand smoke raises your risk for CHD and heart attack.
                
Smoking exposes you to carbon monoxide. This chemical robs your blood of oxygen and triggers a buildup of plaque in your arteries.
                
Smoking also increases the risk of blood clots forming in your arteries. Blood clots can block plaque-narrowed arteries and cause a heart attack. The more you smoke, the greater your risk for a heart attack.
                
Even women who smoke fewer than two cigarettes a day are at increased risk for CHD.
                
High Blood Cholesterol and High Triglyceride Levels
                
Cholesterol travels in the bloodstream in small packages called lipoproteins (LI-po-pro-teens). The two major kinds of lipoproteins are low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol.
                
LDL cholesterol is sometimes called "bad" cholesterol. This is because it carries cholesterol to tissues, including your heart arteries. HDL cholesterol is sometimes called "good" cholesterol. This is because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries.
                
A blood test called a lipoprotein panel is used to measure cholesterol levels. This test gives information about your total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides (a type of fat found in the blood).
                
Cholesterol levels are measured in milligrams (mg) of cholesterol per deciliter (dL) of blood. A woman's risk for CHD increases if she has a total cholesterol level greater than 200 mg/dL, an LDL cholesterol level greater than 100 mg/dL, or an HDL cholesterol level less than 50 mg/dL.
                
A triglyceride level greater than 150 mg/dL also increases a woman's risk for CHD. A woman's HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels predict her risk for CHD better than her total cholesterol or LDL cholesterol levels.
                
High Blood Pressure
                
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood. If this pressure rises and stays high over time, it can damage the body in many ways.
                
Women who have blood pressure greater than 120/80 mmHg are at increased risk for CHD. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
High blood pressure is defined differently for people who have diabetes or chronic kidney disease. If you have one of these diseases, work with your doctor to set a healthy blood pressure goal.
                
Diabetes and Prediabetes
                
Diabetes is a disease in which the body's blood sugar level is too high. This is because the body doesn't make enough insulin or doesn't use its insulin properly.
                
Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells, where it's used for energy. Over time, a high blood sugar level can lead to increased plaque buildup in your arteries.
                
Prediabetes is a condition in which your blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not as high as it is in diabetes. Prediabetes puts you at higher risk for both diabetes and CHD.
                
Diabetes and prediabetes raise the risk of CHD more in women than in men. In fact, having diabetes doubles a woman's risk of developing CHD.
                
Before menopause, estrogen provides women some protection against CHD. However, in women who have diabetes, the disease counters the protective effects of estrogen.
                
Overweight and Obesity
                
The terms "overweight" and "obesity" refer to body weight that's greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
The most useful measure of overweight and obesity is body mass index (BMI). BMI is calculated from your height and weight. In adults, a BMI of 18.5 to 24.9 is considered normal. A BMI of 25 to 29.9 is considered overweight. A BMI of 30 or more is considered obese.
                
You can use the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's (NHLBI's) online BMI calculator to figure out your BMI, or your doctor can help you.
                
Studies suggest that where extra weight occurs on the body may predict CHD risk better than BMI. Women who carry much of their fat around the waist are at greatest risk for CHD. These women have "apple-shaped" figures.
                
Women who carry most of their fat on their hips and thighsthat is, those who have "pear-shaped" figuresare at lower risk for CHD.
                
To fully know how excess weight affects your CHD risk, you should know your BMI and waist measurement. If you have a BMI greater than 24.9 and a waist measurement greater than 35 inches, you're at increased risk for CHD.
                
If your waist measurement divided by your hip measurement is greater than 0.9, you're also at increased risk for CHD.
                
Studies also suggest that women whose weight goes up and down dramatically (typically due to unhealthy dieting) are at increased risk for CHD. These swings in weight can lower HDL cholesterol levels.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndromeis the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for CHD and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke. A diagnosis of metabolic syndrome is made if you have at least three of the following risk factors:
                
A large waistline. Having extra fat in the waist area is a greater risk factor for CHD than having extra fat in other parts of the body, such as on the hips.
                
A higher than normal triglyceride level (or you're on medicine to treat high triglycerides).
                
A lower than normal HDL cholesterol level (or you're on medicine to treat low HDL cholesterol).
                
Higher than normal blood pressure (or you're on medicine to treat high blood pressure).
                
Higher than normal fasting blood sugar (or you're on medicine to treat diabetes)
                
Metabolic syndrome is more common in African American women and Mexican American women than in men of the same racial groups. The condition affects White women and men about equally.
                
Birth Control Pills
                
Women who smoke and take birth control pills are at very high risk for CHD, especially if they're older than 35. For women who take birth control pills but don't smoke, the risk of CHD isn't fully known.
                
Lack of Physical Activity
                
Inactive people are nearly twice as likely to develop CHD as those who are physically active. A lack of physical activity can worsen other CHD risk factors, such as high blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, diabetes and prediabetes, and overweight and obesity.
                
Unhealthy Diet
                
An unhealthy diet can raise your risk for CHD. For example, foods that are high in saturated and trans fats and cholesterol raise your LDL cholesterol level. A high-sodium (salt) diet can raise your risk for high blood pressure.
                
Foods with added sugars will give you extra calories without nutrients, such as vitamins and minerals. This can cause you to gain weight, which raises your risk for CHD.
                
Too much alcohol also can cause you to gain weight, and it will raise your blood pressure.
                
Stress or Depression
                
Stress may play a role in causing CHD. Stress can trigger your arteries to narrow. This can raise your blood pressure and your risk for a heart attack.
                
Getting upset or angry also can trigger a heart attack. Stress also may indirectly raise your risk for CHD if it makes you more likely to smoke or overeat foods high in fat and sugar.
                
People who are depressed are two to three times more likely to develop CHD than people who are not. Depression is twice as common in women as in men.
                
Anemia
                
Anemia (uh-NEE-me-eh) is a condition in which your blood has a lower than normal number of red blood cells.
                
The condition also can occur if your red blood cells don't contain enough hemoglobin (HEE-muh-glow-bin). Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that carries oxygen from your lungs to the rest of your organs.
                
If you have anemia, your organs don't get enough oxygen-rich blood. This causes your heart to work harder, which may raise your risk for CHD.
                
Anemia has many causes. For more information, go to the Health Topics Anemiaarticle.
                
Sleep Apnea
                
Sleep apneais a common disorder that causes pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. Breathing pauses can last from a few seconds to minutes. They often occur 5 to 30 times or more an hour.
                
Typically, normal breathing starts again after the pause, sometimes with a loud snort or choking sound. Major signs of sleep apnea are snoring and daytime sleepiness.
                
When you stop breathing, the lack of oxygen triggers your body's stress hormones. This causes blood pressure to rise and makes the blood more likely to clot.
                
Untreated sleep apnea can raise your risk for high blood pressure, diabetes, and even a heart attack or stroke.
                
Women are more likely to develop sleep apnea after menopause.
                
Risk Factors You Can't Control
                
Age and Menopause
                
As you get older, your risk for CHD and heart attack rises. This is due in part to the slow buildup of plaque inside your heart arteries, which can start during childhood.
                
Before age 55, women have a lower risk for CHD than men. Estrogen provides women with some protection against CHD before menopause. After age 55, however, the risk of CHD increases in both women and men.
                
You may have gone through early menopause, either naturally or because you had your ovaries removed. If so, you're twice as likely to develop CHD as women of the same age who aren't yet menopausal.
                
Another reason why women are at increased risk for CHD after age 55 is that middle age is when you tend to develop other CHD risk factors.
                
Women who have gone through menopause also are at increased risk for broken heart syndrome. (For more information, go to the section on emerging risk factors below.)
                
Family History
                
Family history plays a role in CHD risk. Your risk increases if your father or a brother was diagnosed with CHD before 55 years of age, or if your mother or a sister was diagnosed with CHD before 65 years of age.
                
Also, a family history of strokeespecially a mother's stroke historycan help predict the risk of heart attack in women.
                
Having a family history of CHD or stroke doesn't mean that you'll develop heart disease. This is especially true if your affected family member smoked or had other risk factors that were not well treated.
                
Making lifestyle changes and taking medicines to treat risk factors often can lessen genetic influences and prevent or delay heart problems.
                
Preeclampsia
                
Preeclampsia (pre-e-KLAMP-se-ah) is a condition that develops during pregnancy. The two main signs of preeclampsia are a rise in blood pressure and excess protein in the urine.
                
These signs usually occur during the second half of pregnancy and go away after delivery. However, your risk of developing high blood pressure later in life increases after having preeclampsia.
                
Preeclampsia also is linked to an increased lifetime risk of heart disease, including CHD, heart attack, and heart failure. (Likewise, having heart disease risk factors, such as diabetes or obesity, increases your risk for preeclampsia.)
                
If you had preeclampsia during pregnancy, you're twice as likely to develop heart disease as women who haven't had the condition. You're also more likely to develop heart disease earlier in life.
                
Preeclampsia is a heart disease risk factor that you can't control. However, if you've had the condition, you should take extra care to try and control other heart disease risk factors.
                
The more severe your preeclampsia was, the greater your risk for heart disease. Let your doctor know that you had preeclampsia so he or she can assess your heart disease risk and how to reduce it.
                
Emerging Risk Factors
                
Research suggests that inflammation plays a role in causing CHD. Inflammation is the body's response to injury or infection. Damage to the arteries' inner walls seems to trigger inflammation and help plaque grow.
                
High blood levels of a protein called C-reactive protein (CRP) are a sign of inflammation in the body. Research suggests that women who have high blood levels of CRP are at increased risk for heart attack.
                
Also, some inflammatory diseases, such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, may increase the risk for CHD.
                
Some studies suggest that women who have migraine headaches may be at greater risk for CHD. This is especially true for women who have migraines with auras (visual disturbances), such as flashes of light or zig-zag lines.
                
Low bone density and low intake of folate and vitamin B6 also may raise a woman's risk for CHD.
                
More research is needed to find out whether calcium supplements with or without vitamin D affect CHD risk. You may want to talk with your doctor to find out whether these types of supplements are right for you.
                
Researchers are just starting to learn about broken heart syndrome risk factors. Most women who have this disorder are White and have gone through menopause.
                
Many of these women have other heart disease risk factors, such as high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, diabetes, and smoking. However, these risk factors tend to be less common in women who have broken heart syndrome than in women who have CHD.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the symptoms of Hardikar syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hardikar syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hardikar syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 90% Abnormality of the cardiovascular system 90% Abnormality of the ureter 90% Cleft palate 90% Extrahepatic biliary duct atresia 90% Non-midline cleft lip 90% Chorioretinal degeneration 5% Blepharophimosis - Cholangitis - Cleft upper lip - Coarctation of aorta - Congenital onset - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Failure to thrive - Growth delay - Hepatomegaly - Hydronephrosis - Hydroureter - Hyperbilirubinemia - Intestinal malrotation - Jaundice - Patent ductus arteriosus - Patent foramen ovale - Pigmentary retinopathy - Portal hypertension - Pruritus - Pulmonary artery stenosis - Recurrent urinary tract infections - Splenomegaly - Sporadic - Ureteral stenosis - Vaginal atresia - Ventricular septal defect - Vesicoureteral reflux - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Menetrier disease ?
Answer: What causes Mntrier disease? The exact cause of Mntrier disease is unknown.  However, it has been associated with cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in children and Heliobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection in adults. In addition, some have suggested that overexpression of a type of growth factor called the transforming growth factor-, which is found in a specific part of the stomach, the superficial gastric epithelium, might play a role.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Skin Cancer ?
Answer: Many Treatment Options There are many treatment options for people with melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer. The choice of treatment depends on your age and general health, the site of the cancer, the stage of the cancer, whether or not it has spread beyond the original site, and other factors. If tests show that you have cancer, you should talk with your doctor and make treatment decisions as soon as possible. Studies show that early treatment leads to better chances for successful outcomes. In some cases, all of the cancer is removed during the biopsy, and no further treatment is needed. For others, more treatment will be needed, and a doctor can explain all of the treatment options. Working With a Team of Specialists A person with skin cancer, particularly if it is melanoma, is often treated by a team of specialists. The team will keep the primary doctor informed about the patient's progress. The team may include a medical oncologist (a specialist in cancer treatment), a dermatologist (a specialist in skin problems), a surgeon, a radiation oncologist (a specialist in radiation therapy), and others. Before starting treatment, you may want another doctor to review the diagnosis and treatment plan. Some insurance companies require a second opinion. Others may pay for a second opinion if you request it. Plan Ahead for Doctor Visits When planning your skin cancer treatment, you may meet with many different health care providers, get lots of information, and have lots of questions. Plan ahead for doctor appointments by writing down your questions and bringing a paper and pen to take notes. Sometimes it also helps to bring a friend or family member to your doctor appointments so they can help you listen, take notes, ask questions, and give you support. Clinical Trials for Skin Cancer Some skin cancer patients take part in studies of new treatments. These studies, called clinical trials, are designed to find out whether a new treatment is safe, effective, and better than the current standard of care. Often, clinical trials compare a new treatment with a standard one so that doctors can learn which is more effective. Talk to your doctor if you are interested in taking part in a clinical trial. The U.S. National Institutes of Health, through its National Library of Medicine and other Institutes, maintains a database of clinical trials at ClinicalTrials.gov. - Click here to see a list of the current clinical trials on melanoma.  - Click here to see a list of the current clinical trials on non-melanoma skin cancer. Click here to see a list of the current clinical trials on melanoma. Click here to see a list of the current clinical trials on non-melanoma skin cancer. A separate window will open. Click the "x" in the upper right hand corner of the "Clinical Trials" window to return here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for Acquired Cystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: If acquired cystic kidney disease is not causing complications, a person does not need treatment. A health care provider will treat infections with antibioticsmedications that kill bacteria. If large cysts are causing pain, a health care provider may drain the cyst using a long needle inserted into the cyst through the skin.
                
When a surgeon transplants a new kidney into a patient's body to treat kidney failure, acquired cystic kidney disease in the damaged kidneys, which usually remain in place after a transplant, often disappears.
                
A surgeon may perform an operation to remove tumors or suspected tumors. In rare cases, a surgeon performs an operation to stop cysts from bleeding.
                
Have Regular Screenings to Look for Cyst or Tumor Growth   Some health care providers recommend all people with end-stage kidney disease get screened for kidney cancer using CT scans or MRIs after 3 years of dialysis. People with acquired cystic kidney disease should talk with their health care provider about when to begin screening.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies ?
Answer: This condition appears to be rare; only a few affected individuals have been reported worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ?
Answer: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis has an estimated prevalence of 13 to 20 per 100,000 people worldwide. About 100,000 people are affected in the United States, and 30,000 to 40,000 new cases are diagnosed each year.  Familial pulmonary fibrosis is less common than the sporadic form of the disease. Only a small percentage of cases of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis appear to run in families.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Frasier syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Frasier syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Frasier syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Nephrotic Syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Alexander Disease ?
Answer: The prognosis for individuals with Alexander disease is generally poor. Most children with the infantile form do not survive past the age of 6. Juvenile and adult onset forms of the disorder have a slower, more lengthy course.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What causes Hyperthyroidism ?
Answer: Hyperthyroidism has several causes, including
                
- Graves disease  - thyroid nodules  - thyroiditis, or inflammation of the thyroid  - consuming too much iodine  - overmedicating with synthetic thyroid hormone, which is used to treat underactive thyroid
                
Rarely, hyperthyroidism is caused by a pituitary adenoma, which is a noncancerous tumor of the pituitary gland. In this case, hyperthyroidism is due to too much TSH.
                
Graves Disease
                
Graves disease, also known as toxic diffuse goiter, is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism in the United States. Graves disease is an autoimmune disorder. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. But in autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs.
                
With Graves disease, the immune system makes an antibody called thyroid stimulating immunoglobulin (TSI) that attaches to thyroid cells. TSI mimics the action of TSH and stimulates the thyroid to make too much thyroid hormone.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Graves' disease.
                
Thyroid Nodules
                
Thyroid nodules, also called adenomas, are lumps in the thyroid. Thyroid nodules are common and usually noncancerous. About 3 to 7 percent of the U.S. population has them.2 However, nodules may become overactive and produce too much hormone.
                
A single overactive nodule is called a toxic adenoma. Multiple overactive nodules are called toxic multinodular goiter. Often found in older adults, toxic multinodular goiter can produce a large amount of excess thyroid hormone.
                
Thyroiditis
                
Thyroiditis is an inflammation of the thyroid that causes stored thyroid hormone to leak out of the thyroid gland. At first, the leakage raises hormone levels in the blood, leading to hyperthyroidism that lasts for 1 or 2 months. Most people then develop hypothyroidismwhen thyroid hormone levels are too lowbefore the thyroid is completely healed.
                
Several types of thyroiditis can cause hyperthyroidism followed by hypothyroidism:
                
- Subacute thyroiditis. This condition involves painful inflammation and enlargement of the thyroid. Experts are not sure what causes subacute thyroiditis, but it may be related to a viral or bacterial infection. The condition usually goes away on its own in a few months.  - Postpartum thyroiditis. This type of thyroiditis develops after a woman gives birth. For more information, see the section titled What happens with pregnancy and thyroid conditions?  - Silent thyroiditis. This type of thyroiditis is called silent because it is painless, as is postpartum thyroiditis, even though the thyroid may be enlarged. Like postpartum thyroiditis, silent thyroiditis is probably an autoimmune condition and sometimes develops into permanent hypothyroidism.
                
Consuming Too Much Iodine
                
The thyroid uses iodine to make thyroid hormone, so the amount of iodine consumed influences the amount of thyroid hormone the thyroid makes. In some people, consuming large amounts of iodine may cause the thyroid to make excess thyroid hormone.
                
Sometimes significant amounts of iodine are contained in medicationssuch as amiodarone, which is used to treat heart problemsor in supplements containing seaweed. Some cough syrups also contain large amounts of iodine. See Eating, Diet, and Nutrition for more information on iodine.
                
Overmedicating with Synthetic Thyroid Hormone
                
Some people who take synthetic thyroid hormone for hypothyroidism may take too much. People who take synthetic thyroid hormone should see their health care provider at least once a year to have their thyroid hormone levels checked and follow the health care providers instructions about the dosage.
                
Some other medications may also interact with synthetic thyroid hormone to raise hormone levels in the blood. People who take synthetic thyroid hormone should ask their health care provider about interactions when starting new medications.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What causes Overview of Kidney Disease in Children ?
Answer: Kidney disease in children can be caused by
                
- birth defects  - hereditary diseases  - infection  - nephrotic syndrome  - systemic diseases  - trauma  - urine blockage or reflux
                
From birth to age 4, birth defects and hereditary diseases are the leading causes of kidney failure. Between ages 5 and 14, kidney failure is most commonly caused by hereditary diseases, nephrotic syndrome, and systemic diseases. Between ages 15 and 19, diseases that affect the glomeruli are the leading cause of kidney failure, and hereditary diseases become less common.1
                
Birth Defects
                
A birth defect is a problem that happens while a baby is developing in the mothers womb. Birth defects that affect the kidneys include renal agenesis, renal dysplasia, and ectopic kidney, to name a few. These defects are abnormalities of size, structure, or position of the kidneys:
                
- renal agenesischildren born with only one kidney  - renal dysplasiachildren born with both kidneys, yet one does not function  - ectopic kidneychildren born with a kidney that is located below, above, or on the opposite side of its usual position
                
In general, children with these conditions lead full, healthy lives. However, some children with renal agenesis or renal dysplasia are at increased risk for developing kidney disease.
                
Hereditary Diseases
                
Hereditary kidney diseases are illnesses passed from parent to child through the genes. One example is polycystic kidney disease (PKD), characterized by many grapelike clusters of fluid-filled cystsabnormal sacsthat make both kidneys larger over time. These cysts take over and destroy working kidney tissue. Another hereditary disease is Alport syndrome, which is caused by a mutation in a gene for a type of protein called collagen that makes up the glomeruli. The condition leads to scarring of the kidneys. Alport syndrome generally develops in early childhood and is more serious in boys than in girls. The condition can lead to hearing and vision problems in addition to kidney disease.
                
Infection
                
Hemolytic uremic syndrome and acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis are kidney diseases that can develop in a child after an infection.
                
- Hemolytic uremic syndrome is a rare disease that is often caused by the Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacterium found in contaminated foods, such as meat, dairy products, and juice. Hemolytic uremic syndrome develops when E. coli bacteria lodged in the digestive tract make toxins that enter the bloodstream. The toxins start to destroy red blood cells and damage the lining of the blood vessels, including the glomeruli. Most children who get an E. coli infection have vomiting, stomach cramps, and bloody diarrhea for 2 to 3 days. Children who develop hemolytic uremic syndrome become pale, tired, and irritable. Hemolytic uremic syndrome can lead to kidney failure in some children.  - Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis can occur after an episode of strep throat or a skin infection. The Streptococcus bacterium does not attack the kidneys directly; instead, the infection may stimulate the immune system to overproduce antibodies. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system. The immune system protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. When the extra antibodies circulate in the blood and finally deposit in the glomeruli, the kidneys can be damaged. Most cases of post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis develop 1 to 3 weeks after an untreated infection, though it may be as long as 6 weeks. Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis lasts only a brief time and the kidneys usually recover. In a few cases, kidney damage may be permanent.
                
Nephrotic Syndrome
                
Nephrotic syndrome is a collection of symptoms that indicate kidney damage. Nephrotic syndrome includes all of the following conditions:
                
- albuminuriawhen a persons urine contains an elevated level of albumin, a protein typically found in the blood  - hyperlipidemiahigher-than-normal fat and cholesterol levels in the blood  - edemaswelling, usually in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face  - hypoalbuminemialow levels of albumin in the blood
                
Nephrotic syndrome in children can be caused by the following conditions:
                
- Minimal change disease is a condition characterized by damage to the glomeruli that can be seen only with an electron microscope, which shows tiny details better than any other type of microscope. The cause of minimal change disease is unknown; some health care providers think it may occur after allergic reactions, vaccinations, and viral infections.  - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is scarring in scattered regions of the kidney, typically limited to a small number of glomeruli.  - Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is a group of autoimmune diseases that cause antibodies to build up on a membrane in the kidney. Autoimmune diseases cause the bodys immune system to attack the bodys own cells and organs.
                
Systemic Diseases
                
Systemic diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE or lupus) and diabetes, involve many organs or the whole body, including the kidneys:
                
- Lupus nephritis is kidney inflammation caused by SLE, which is an autoimmune disease.  - Diabetes leads to elevated levels of blood glucose, also called blood sugar, which scar the kidneys and increase the speed at which blood flows into the kidneys. Faster blood flow strains the glomeruli, decreasing their ability to filter blood, and raises blood pressure. Kidney disease caused by diabetes is called diabetic kidney disease. While diabetes is the number one cause of kidney failure in adults, it is an uncommon cause during childhood.
                
More information about systemic kidney diseases is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Lupus Nephritis  - Kidney Disease of Diabetes
                
Trauma
                
Traumas such as burns, dehydration, bleeding, injury, or surgery can cause very low blood pressure, which decreases blood flow to the kidneys. Low blood flow can result in acute kidney failure.
                
Urine Blockage or Reflux
                
When a blockage develops between the kidneys and the urethra, urine can back up into the kidneys and cause damage. Refluxurine flowing from the bladder up to the kidneyhappens when the valve between the bladder and the ureter does not close all the way.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is hyperkalemic periodic paralysis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Voice Disorders ?
Answer: Voice is the sound made by air passing from your lungs through your larynx, or voice box. In your larynx are your vocal cords, two bands of muscle that vibrate to make sound. For most of us, our voices play a big part in who we are, what we do, and how we communicate. Like fingerprints, each person's voice is unique.    Many things we do can injure our vocal cords. Talking too much, screaming, constantly clearing your throat, or smoking can make you hoarse. They can also lead to problems such as nodules, polyps, and sores on the vocal cords. Other causes of voice disorders include infections, upward movement of stomach acids into the throat, growths due to a virus, cancer, and diseases that paralyze the vocal cords.    Signs that your voice isn't healthy include       - Your voice has become hoarse or raspy    - You've lost the ability to hit some high notes when singing    - Your voice suddenly sounds deeper    - Your throat often feels raw, achy, or strained    - It's become an effort to talk       Treatment for voice disorders varies depending on the cause. Most voice problems can be successfully treated when diagnosed early.    NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1 ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of SMARD1:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress 1   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy ?
Answer: PSP gets progressively worse but is not itself directly life-threatening. It does, however, predispose patients to serious complications such as pneumonia secondary to difficulty in swallowing (dysphagia). The most common complications are choking and pneumonia, head injury, and fractures caused by falls. The most common cause of death is pneumonia. With good attention to medical and nutritional needs, however, most PSP patients live well into their 70s and beyond.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How to diagnose Mondini dysplasia ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for Mondini dysplasia? Genetic testing may be available for Mondini dysplasia if it is associated with a specific syndrome for which genetic testing is available, or if a mutation has previously been identified in an affected individual in the family. Unfortunately, for many cases of isolated Mondini dysplasia, there is no clinical genetic testing available. GeneTests lists the names of laboratories that are performing genetic testing for many conditions that may be associated with Mondini dysplasia. Please note that most of the laboratories listed through GeneTests do not accept direct contact from patients and their families; therefore, if you are interested in learning more, you will need to work with a health care provider or a genetics professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Refsum Disease ?
Answer: Adult Refsum disease (ARD) is a rare genetic disease that causes weakness or numbness of the hands and feet (peripheral neuropathy). Due to a genetic abnormality, people with ARD disease lack the enzyme in peroxisomes that break down phytanic acid, a type of fat found in certain foods. As a result, toxic levels of phytanic acid build up in the brain, blood, and other tissues. The disease usually begins in late childhood or early adulthood with increasing night blindness due to degeneration of the retina (retinitis pigmentosa). If the disease progresses, other symptoms may include deafness, loss of the sense of smell (anosmia), problems with balance and coordination (ataxia), dry and scaly skin (ichthyosis), and heartbeat abnormalities (cardiac arrhythmias). Some individuals will have shortened bones in their fingers or toes, or a visibly shortened fourth toe. Although the disease usually appears in early childhood, some people will not develop symptoms until their 40s or 50s.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) paroxysmal extreme pain disorder ?
Answer: Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder is a condition characterized by skin redness and warmth (flushing) and attacks of severe pain in various parts of the body. The area of flushing typically corresponds to the site of the pain. The pain attacks experienced by people with paroxysmal extreme pain disorder usually last seconds to minutes, but in some cases can last hours. These attacks can start as early as infancy. Early in life, the pain is typically concentrated in the lower part of the body, especially around the rectum, and is usually triggered by a bowel movement. Some children may develop constipation, which is thought to be due to fear of triggering a pain attack. Pain attacks in these young children may also be accompanied by seizures, slow heartbeat, or short pauses in breathing (apnea).  As a person with paroxysmal extreme pain disorder ages, the location of pain changes. Pain attacks switch from affecting the lower body to affecting the head and face, especially the eyes and jaw. Triggers of these pain attacks include changes in temperature (such as a cold wind) and emotional distress as well as eating spicy foods and drinking cold drinks.  Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder is considered a form of peripheral neuropathy because it affects the peripheral nervous system, which connects the brain and spinal cord to muscles and to cells that detect sensations such as touch, smell, and pain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Cluttering ?
Answer: Cluttering is a disorder that affects the way a person speaks. It is characterized by a rapid speaking rate and inability to maintain normally expected sound, syllable, phrase, and pausing patterns while speaking. Other symptoms may include stuttering; language or phonological errors (problems organizing sounds); and attention deficits. The disorder seems to result from disorganized speech planning, talking too fast or in spurts, or simply being unsure of what one wants to say. Therapy generally focuses on the symptoms present in each individual and may include slowing the rate of speech and clearly producing speech sounds (articulating). Articulation and language problems are often reduced if the affected individual can achieve a slower rate of speech.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Diabetic Diet
Answer: Summary : If you have diabetes, your body cannot make or properly use insulin. This leads to high blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels. Healthy eating helps keep your blood sugar in your target range. It is a critical part of managing your diabetes, because controlling your blood sugar can prevent the complications of diabetes.     A registered dietitian can help make an eating plan just for you. It should take into account your weight, medicines, lifestyle, and other health problems you have.    Healthy diabetic eating includes        - Limiting foods that are high in sugar     - Eating smaller portions, spread out over the day    - Being careful about when and how many carbohydrates you eat    - Eating a variety of whole-grain foods, fruits and vegetables every day    - Eating less fat    - Limiting your use of alcohol    - Using less salt       NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Human Growth Hormone and Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease Resource List ?
Answer: Health Alert: Adrenal Crisis Causes Death in Some People Who Were Treated with Human Growth Hormone
                
National Hormone and Pituitary Program (NHPP): Information for People Treated with Pituitary Human Growth Hormone (Summary)
                
National Hormone and Pituitary Program (NHPP): Information for People Treated with Pituitary Human Growth Hormone (Comprehensive Report)
                
Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease. Fact sheet of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health (NIH)
                
NIH and Italian Scientists Develop Nasal Test for Human Prion Disease
                
What is a prion?from Scientific American: Ask the Experts
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Virus associated hemophagocytic syndrome ?
Answer: Virus associated hemophagocytic syndrome is a very serious complication of a viral infection. Signs and symptoms of virus associated hemophagocytic syndrome, include high fever, liver problems, enlarged liver and spleen, coagulation factor abnormalities, decreased red or white blood cells and platelets (pancytopenia), and a build-up of histiocytes, a type of immune cell, in various tissues in the body resulting in the destruction of blood-producing cells (histiocytic proliferation with prominent hemophagocytosis).  Diagnosis is based upon the signs and symptoms of the patient. The cause of the condition is not known. Treatment is challenging and approach will vary depending on the age and medical history of the patient. Complications of this syndrome can become life threatening. Related conditions (conditions with overlapping signs and symptoms), include histiocytic medullary reticulosis (HMR), familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL), and X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tarlov Cysts ?
Answer: The NINDS, a component of the National Institutes of Health within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments to reduce and prevent pain and nerve damage.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) isovaleric acidemia ?
Answer: Isovaleric acidemia is a rare disorder in which the body is unable to process certain proteins properly. It is classified as an organic acid disorder, which is a condition that leads to an abnormal buildup of particular acids known as organic acids. Abnormal levels of organic acids in the blood (organic acidemia), urine (organic aciduria), and tissues can be toxic and can cause serious health problems.  Normally, the body breaks down proteins from food into smaller parts called amino acids. Amino acids can be further processed to provide energy for growth and development. People with isovaleric acidemia have inadequate levels of an enzyme that helps break down a particular amino acid called leucine.  Health problems related to isovaleric acidemia range from very mild to life-threatening. In severe cases, the features of isovaleric acidemia become apparent within a few days after birth. The initial symptoms include poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, and lack of energy (lethargy). These symptoms sometimes progress to more serious medical problems, including seizures, coma, and possibly death. A characteristic sign of isovaleric acidemia is a distinctive odor of sweaty feet during acute illness. This odor is caused by the buildup of a compound called isovaleric acid in affected individuals.  In other cases, the signs and symptoms of isovaleric acidemia appear during childhood and may come and go over time. Children with this condition may fail to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive) and often have delayed development. In these children, episodes of more serious health problems can be triggered by prolonged periods without food (fasting), infections, or eating an increased amount of protein-rich foods.  Some people with gene mutations that cause isovaleric acidemia are asymptomatic, which means they never experience any signs or symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Roch-Leri mesosomatous lipomatosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Roch-Leri mesosomatous lipomatosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Roch-Leri mesosomatous lipomatosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the skin 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes ?
Answer: Adopting healthy eating habits can help people lose a modest amount of weight and reverse insulin resistance. Experts encourage people to slowly adopt healthy eating habits that they can maintain, rather than trying extreme weight-loss solutions. People may need to get help from a dietitian or join a weight-loss program for support.
                
In general, people should lose weight by choosing healthy foods, controlling portions, eating less fat, and increasing physical activity. People are better able to lose weight and keep it off when they learn how to adapt their favorite foods to a healthy eating plan.
                
The DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) eating plan, developed by the NIH, has been shown to be effective in decreasing insulin resistance when combined with weight loss and physical activity. More information on DASH is available at www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/dash.
                
The U.S. Dietary Guidelines for Americans also offers healthy eating advice and tools for changing eating habits at www.choosemyplate.gov.
                
Dietary Supplements
                
Vitamin D studies show a link between people's ability to maintain healthy blood glucose levels and having enough vitamin D in their blood. However, studies to determine the proper vitamin D levels for preventing diabetes are ongoing; no special recommendations have been made about vitamin D levels or supplements for people with prediabetes.
                
Currently, the Institute of Medicine (IOM), the agency that recommends supplementation levels based on current science, provides the following guidelines for daily vitamin D intake:
                
- People ages 1 to 70 years may require 600 International Units (IUs).  - People ages 71 and older may require as much as 800 IUs.
                
The IOM also recommended that no more than 4,000 IUs of vitamin D be taken per day.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss use of complementary and alternative medicine practices, including the use of dietary supplements, with their health care provider.
                
More information about using dietary supplements to help with diabetes is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Complementary and Alternative Medical Therapies for Diabetes.
                

                
Physical Activity
                
Regular physical activity tackles several risk factors at once. Regular physical activity helps the body use insulin properly.
                
Regular physical activity also helps a person
                
- lose weight  - control blood glucose levels  - control blood pressure  - control cholesterol levels
                
People in the DPP who were physically active for 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week, reduced their risk of type 2 diabetes. Many chose brisk walking as their physical activity.
                
Most people should aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week. For best results, people should do both aerobic activities, which use large muscle groups and make the heart beat faster, and muscle strengthening activities.
                
Aerobic activities include brisk walking, climbing stairs, swimming, dancing, and other activities that increase the heart rate.
                
Muscle strengthening activities include lifting weights and doing sit-ups or push-ups.
                
People who haven't been physically active recently should talk with their health care provider about which activities are best for them and have a checkup before starting an exercise program.
                
Not Smoking
                
Those who smoke should quit. A health care provider can help people find ways to quit smoking. Studies show that people who get help have a better chance of quitting.
                
For more information about how to reverse insulin resistance and prediabetes with diet and increased physical activity, see the following National Diabetes Education Program publications at www.yourdiabetesinfo.org:    - Get Real! You Don't Have to Knock Yourself Out to Prevent Diabetes!   - More Than 50 Ways to Prevent Diabetes   - Small Steps. Big Rewards. Your Game Plan to Prevent Type 2 Diabetes.
                
Medication
                
The medication metformin is recommended for treatment of some individuals at very high risk of developing type 2 diabetes. In the DPP, metformin was shown to be most effective in preventing or delaying the development of type 2 diabetes in younger, heavier people with prediabetes. In general, metformin is recommend for those who are younger than age 60 and have
                
- combined IGT and IFG  - A1C above 6 percent  - low HDL cholesterol  - elevated triglycerides  - a parent or sibling with diabetes  - a BMI of at least 35
                
Metformin also lowers the risk of diabetes in women who have had gestational diabetes. People at high risk should ask their health care provider if they should take metformin to prevent type 2 diabetes.
                
Several medications have been shown to reduce type 2 diabetes risk to varying degrees, but the only medication recommended by the ADA for type 2 diabetes prevention is metformin. Other medications that have delayed diabetes have side effects or haven't shown long-lasting benefits. No medication, including metformin, is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat insulin resistance or prediabetes or to prevent type 2 diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How to diagnose Lipodermatosclerosis ?
Answer: How is lipodermatosclerosis diagnosed? Lipodermatosclerosis is usually diagnosed based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. A skin biopsy and/or blood tests are usually not required to confirm a diagnosis but may be performed in rare cases. Ultrasound scans and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be used to obtain more information regarding the severity of the condition and to determine the best treatment approach.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Adult-onset Still's disease ?
Answer: What causes adult-onset Still's disease? The cause of adult-onset Stills disease is unknown. Some hypothesize that the condition results from or is triggered by a virus or other infectious agent. Others believe that it is a hypersensitive or autoimmune disorder. To date, no conclusive evidence has been found to prove or disprove either theory.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Sjogren syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Sjogren syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Sjogren syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Arthralgia 90% Arthritis 90% Autoimmunity 90% Dry skin 90% Increased antibody level in blood 90% Keratoconjunctivitis sicca 90% Xerostomia 90% Abnormality of temperature regulation 50% Abnormality of the gastric mucosa 50% Abnormality of the pharynx 50% Acrocyanosis 50% Carious teeth 50% Corneal erosion 50% Diplopia 50% Feeding difficulties in infancy 50% Furrowed tongue 50% Myalgia 50% Opacification of the corneal stroma 50% Paresthesia 50% Pulmonary fibrosis 50% Pulmonary infiltrates 50% Recurrent respiratory infections 50% Sinusitis 50% Sleep disturbance 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormal tendon morphology 7.5% Abnormality of the pleura 7.5% Abnormality of the renal tubule 7.5% Abnormality of the sense of smell 7.5% Alopecia 7.5% Arrhythmia 7.5% Asthma 7.5% Atelectasis 7.5% Cerebral ischemia 7.5% Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 7.5% Conductive hearing impairment 7.5% Cryoglobulinemia 7.5% Cutis marmorata 7.5% Diabetes insipidus 7.5% Epistaxis 7.5% Facial palsy 7.5% Glomerulopathy 7.5% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Hypercalciuria 7.5% Hypokalemia 7.5% Leukopenia 7.5% Lymphoma 7.5% Malabsorption 7.5% Meningitis 7.5% Microcytic anemia 7.5% Myositis 7.5% Nephrolithiasis 7.5% Nephrotic syndrome 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Ophthalmoparesis 7.5% Otitis media 7.5% Pancreatitis 7.5% Photophobia 7.5% Proteinuria 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Pulmonary hypertension 7.5% Reduced bone mineral density 7.5% Renal insufficiency 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Salivary gland neoplasm 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Splenomegaly 7.5% Subcutaneous hemorrhage 7.5% Thrombocytopenia 7.5% Thyroiditis 7.5% Urticaria 7.5% Vasculitis 7.5% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Rheumatoid arthritis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Autosomal recessive hyper IgE syndrome ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive hyper IgE syndrome (AR-HIES) is a very rare primary immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by highly elevated blood levels of immunoglobulin E (IgE), recurrent staphylococcal skin abscesses, and recurrent pneumonia. The same features are also seen in the more frequent autosomal dominant HIES syndrome. AR-HIES accounts for only a small minority of HIES cases, with about 130 affected families reported so far. In contrast to AD-HIES, the AR variant is further characterized by extreme hypereosinophilia (increase in the eosinophil count in the bloodstream); susceptibility to viral infections such as Herpes simplex and Molluscum contagiosum; involvement of the central nervous system; T-cell defects; and a high death rate. The dental, skeletal, connective tissue, and facial features present in AD-HIES are absent in AR-HIES. AR-HIES is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and is caused by mutations in the DOCK8 gene.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Tyrosinemia type 3 ?
Answer: Tyrosinemia type 3 is a genetic disorder characterized by elevated blood levels of the amino acid tyrosine, a building block of most proteins. This condition is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase, one of the enzymes required for the multi-step process that breaks down tyrosine. This enzyme shortage is caused by mutations in the HPD gene. Characteristic features include intellectual disability, seizures, and periodic loss of balance and coordination (intermittent ataxia). Tyrosinemia type 3 is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Costello syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; it probably affects 200 to 300 people worldwide. Reported estimates of Costello syndrome prevalence range from 1 in 300,000 to 1 in 1.25 million people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is nemaline myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Nemaline myopathy is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Less often, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Polycythemia Vera ?
Answer: Special blood tests are used to diagnose polycythemia vera. In addition to a complete blood count, bone marrow aspiration and biopsy, and cytogenetic analysis, a serum erythropoietin test is used to diagnose polycythemia vera. In this test, a sample of blood is checked for the level of erythropoietin (a hormone that stimulates new red blood cells to be made). In polycythemia vera, the erythropoietin level would be lower than normal because the body does not need to make more red blood cells.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Diabetic mastopathy ?
Answer: Diabetic mastopathy are noncancerous lesions in the breast most commonly diagnosed in premenopausal women with type 1 diabetes. The cause of this condition is unknown. Symptoms may include hard, irregular, easily movable, discrete, painless breast mass(es).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Peyronie's Disease ?
Answer: Medical experts do not know the exact cause of Peyronies disease. Many believe that Peyronies disease may be the result of
                
- acute injury to the penis  - chronic, or repeated, injury to the penis  - autoimmune diseasea disorder in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs
                
Injury to the Penis
                
Medical experts believe that hitting or bending the penis may injure the tissues inside. A man may injure the penis during sex, athletic activity, or an accident. Injury ruptures blood vessels, which leads to bleeding and swelling inside the layers of the tunica albuginea. Swelling inside the penis will block blood flow through the layers of tissue inside the penis. When the blood cant flow normally, clots can form and trap immune system cells. As the injury heals, the immune system cells may release substances that lead to the formation of too much scar tissue. The scar tissue builds up and forms a plaque inside the penis. The plaque reduces the elasticity of tissues and flexibility of the penis during erection, leading to curvature. The plaque may further harden because of calcificationthe process in which calcium builds up in body tissue.
                
Autoimmune Disease
                
Some medical experts believe that Peyronies disease may be part of an autoimmune disease. Normally, the immune system is the bodys way of protecting itself from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. Men who have autoimmune diseases may develop Peyronies disease when the immune system attacks cells in the penis. This can lead to inflammation in the penis and can cause scarring. Medical experts do not know what causes autoimmune diseases. Some of the autoimmune diseases associated with Peyronies disease affect connective tissues. Connective tissue is specialized tissue that supports, joins, or separates different types of tissues and organs of the body.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to celiac disease ?
Answer: The risk of developing celiac disease is increased by certain variants of the HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 genes. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that play a critical role in the immune system. The HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 genes belong to a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The HLA complex helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders such as viruses and bacteria.  The proteins produced from the HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 genes attach (bind) to each other to form a functional protein complex called an antigen-binding DQ heterodimer. This complex, which is present on the surface of certain immune system cells, attaches to protein fragments (peptides) outside the cell. If the immune system recognizes the peptides as foreign (such as viral or bacterial peptides), it triggers a response to attack the invading viruses or bacteria.  Celiac disease is associated with an inappropriate immune response to a segment of the gluten protein called gliadin. This inappropriate activation of the immune system causes inflammation that damages the body's organs and tissues and leads to the signs and symptoms of celiac disease.  Almost all people with celiac disease have specific variants of the HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 genes, which seem to increase the risk of an inappropriate immune response to gliadin. However, these variants are also found in 30 percent of the general population, and only 3 percent of individuals with the gene variants develop celiac disease.  It appears likely that other contributors, such as environmental factors and changes in other genes, also influence the development of this complex disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Knee Replacement ?
Answer: Knee replacement is surgery for people with severe knee damage. Knee replacement can relieve pain and allow you to be more active. Your doctor may recommend it if you have knee pain and medicine and other treatments are not helping you anymore.    When you have a total knee replacement, the surgeon removes damaged cartilage and bone from the surface of your knee joint and replaces them with a man-made surface of metal and plastic. In a partial knee replacement, the surgeon only replaces one part of your knee joint. The surgery can cause scarring, blood clots, and, rarely, infections. After a knee replacement, you will no longer be able to do certain activities, such as jogging and high-impact sports.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Proctitis ?
Answer: Proctitis is inflammation of the lining of the rectum, the lower end of the large intestine leading to the anus. The large intestine and anus are part of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food. With proctitis, inflammation of the rectal liningcalled the rectal mucosais uncomfortable and sometimes painful. The condition may lead to bleeding or mucous discharge from the rectum, among other symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia ?
Answer: PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is a form of blood cell cancer characterized by an elevated number of cells called eosinophils in the blood. These cells help fight infections by certain parasites and are involved in the inflammation associated with allergic reactions. However, these circumstances do not account for the increased number of eosinophils in PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia.  Another characteristic feature of PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is organ damage caused by the excess eosinophils. Eosinophils release substances to aid in the immune response, but the release of excessive amounts of these substances causes damage to one or more organs, most commonly the heart, skin, lungs, or nervous system. Eosinophil-associated organ damage can lead to a heart condition known as eosinophilic endomyocardial disease, skin rashes, coughing, difficulty breathing, swelling (edema) in the lower limbs, confusion, changes in behavior, or impaired movement or sensations. People with PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia can also have an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly) and elevated levels of certain chemicals called vitamin B12 and tryptase in the blood.  Some people with PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia have an increased number of other types of white blood cells, such as neutrophils or mast cells. Occasionally, people with PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia develop other blood cell cancers, such as acute myeloid leukemia or B-cell or T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia or lymphoblastic lymphoma.  PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is often grouped with a related condition called hypereosinophilic syndrome. These two conditions have very similar signs and symptoms; however, the cause of hypereosinophilic syndrome is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Hemorrhoids ?
Answer: At-home Treatments
                
Simple diet and lifestyle changes often reduce the swelling of hemorrhoids and relieve hemorrhoid symptoms. Eating a high-fiber diet can make stools softer and easier to pass, reducing the pressure on hemorrhoids caused by straining.
                
Fiber is a substance found in plants. The human body cannot digest fiber, but fiber helps improve digestion and prevent constipation. Good sources of dietary fiber are fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. On average, Americans eat about 15 grams of fiber each day.3 The American Dietetic Association recommends 25 grams of fiber per day for women and 38 grams of fiber per day for men.3
                
Doctors may also suggest taking a bulk stool softener or a fiber supplement such as psyllium (Metamucil) or methylcellulose (Citrucel).
                
Other changes that may help relieve hemorrhoid symptoms include
                
- drinking six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water or other nonalcoholic fluids each day  - sitting in a tub of warm water for 10 minutes several times a day  - exercising to prevent constipation  - not straining during bowel movements
                
Over-the-counter creams and suppositories may temporarily relieve the pain and itching of hemorrhoids. These treatments should only be used for a short time because long-term use can damage the skin.
                
Medical Treatment
                
If at-home treatments do not relieve symptoms, medical treatments may be needed. Outpatient treatments can be performed in a doctor's office or a hospital. Outpatient treatments for internal hemorrhoids include the following:
                
- Rubber band ligation. The doctor places a special rubber band around the base of the hemorrhoid. The band cuts off circulation, causing the hemorrhoid to shrink. This procedure should be performed only by a doctor.  - Sclerotherapy. The doctor injects a chemical solution into the blood vessel to shrink the hemorrhoid.  - Infrared coagulation. The doctor uses heat to shrink the hemorrhoid tissue.
                
Large external hemorrhoids or internal hemorrhoids that do not respond to other treatments can be surgically removed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Griscelli syndrome ?
Answer: The three types of Griscelli syndrome are caused by mutations in different genes: Type 1 results from mutations in the MYO5A gene, type 2 is caused by mutations in the RAB27A gene, and type 3 results from mutations in the MLPH gene.  The proteins produced from these genes are found in pigment-producing cells called melanocytes. Within these cells, the proteins work together to transport structures called melanosomes. These structures produce a pigment called melanin, which is the substance that gives skin, hair, and eyes their color (pigmentation). Melanosomes are formed near the center of melanocytes, but they must be transported to the outer edge of these cells and then transferred into other types of cells to provide normal pigmentation.  Mutations in any of the three genes, MYO5A, RAB27A, or MLPH, impair the normal transport of melanosomes within melanocytes. As a result, these structures clump near the center of melanocytes, trapping melanin within these cells and preventing normal pigmentation of skin and hair. The clumps of pigment, which can be seen in hair shafts when viewed under a microscope, are a hallmark feature of the condition.  In addition to their roles in melanosome transport, the MYO5A and RAB27A genes have functions elsewhere in the body. Specifically, the protein produced from the MYO5A gene transports materials within nerve cells (neurons) that appear to be critical for cell function. The protein produced from the RAB27A gene is found in immune system cells, where it is involved in the release of certain compounds that kill foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). Mutations in these genes impair these critical cell activities, leading to the neurological problems and immune system abnormalities found in Griscelli syndrome types 1 and 2, respectively.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ?
Answer: How is human T-cell leukemia virus, type 1 diagnosed? Human T-cell leukemia virus, type 1 (HTLV-1) is usually diagnosed based on blood tests that detect antibodies to the virus. However, HTLV-1 is often never suspected or diagnosed since most people (95%) never develop any signs or symptoms of the infection. Diagnosis may occur during screening for blood donation, testing performed due to a family history of the infection, or a work-up for an HTLV-1-associated condition such as adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) or HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ?
Answer: What causes adolescent idiopathic scoliosis? The term "idiopathic" means that the cause of this condition is unknown. Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Studies suggest that the abnormal spinal curvature may be related to hormonal problems, abnormal bone or muscle growth, nervous system abnormalities, or other factors that have not yet been identified. Researchers suspect that many genes are involved in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. Some of these genes likely contribute to causing the disorder, while others play a role in determining the severity of spinal curvature and whether the curve is stable or progressive. Although many genes have been studied, few clear and consistent genetic associations with this condition have been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Renal tubular acidosis with deafness ?
Answer: Renal tubular acidosis with deafness is characterized by kidney (renal) problems and sensorineural hearing loss. Infants with this condition may have problems with feeding and gaining weight (failure to thrive). Most children and adults with the condition have short stature, and many develop kidney stones. Other less common features include a softening and weakening of the bones and hypokalemic paralysis (extreme muscle weakness associated with low levels of potassium in the blood). Renal tubular acidosis with deafness is caused by mutations in the ATP6V1B1 or ATP6V0A4 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Treatment with sodium bicarbonate or sodium citrate can reduce or prevent many of the symptoms of this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for hyperkalemic periodic paralysis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of hyperkalemic periodic paralysis:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial hyperkalemic periodic paralysis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis Type 1  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hyperkalemic Periodic Paralysis  - Periodic Paralysis International: How is Periodic Paralysis Diagnosed?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Mnire's disease ?
Answer: How might Mnire's disease be treated? At the present time there is no cure for Mnire's disease, but there are several safe and effective medical and surgical therapies that are available to help individuals cope with the symptoms. The symptoms of the disease are often controlled successfully by reducing the bodys retention of fluids through dietary changes (such as a low-salt or salt-free diet and no caffeine or alcohol). Medications such as antihistamines, anticholinergics, and diuretics may lower endolymphatic pressure by reducing the amount of endolymphatic fluid. Eliminating tobacco use and reducing stress levels may also help lessen the severity of symptoms. Symptoms such as dizziness, vertigo, and associated nausea and vomiting may respond to sedative/hypnotics, benzodiazepines like diazepam and anti-emetics. Different surgical procedures are an option for individuals with persistent, debilitating vertigo. Labyrinthectomy (removal of the inner ear sense organ) can effectively control vertigo, but sacrifices hearing and is reserved for patients with nonfunctional hearing in the affected ear. Vestibular neurectomy, selectively severing a nerve from the affected inner ear organ, usually controls the vertigo while preserving hearing but carries surgical risks. Recently, the administration of the ototoxic antibiotic gentamycin directly into the middle ear space has gained popularity worldwide for the control of vertigo associated with Mnire's disease. An article published in the journal Lancet in August 2008, written by Sajjadi and Paparella, reviews treatment options and strategies for individuals with Mnire's disease. Click here to view the abstract of this article. To obtain the complete article, the NLM Web site has a page for locating libraries in your area that can provide direct access to journals (print or online) or where you can get articles through interlibrary loan and Loansome Doc (an NLM document-ordering service). Click on NLM Web site to access this page or go to the following link: http://nnlm.gov/members/. You can also contact the NLM toll-free at 888-346-3656 to locate libraries in your area.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome ?
Answer: Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome is a disorder that affects many parts of the body. Affected individuals have a combination of distinctive facial features and skeletal and neurological abnormalities.  A common feature in people with Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome is craniosynostosis, which is the premature fusion of certain skull bones. This early fusion prevents the skull from growing normally. Affected individuals can also have distinctive facial features, including a long, narrow head; widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism); protruding eyes (exophthalmos); outside corners of the eyes that point downward (downslanting palpebral fissures); a high, narrow palate; a small lower jaw (micrognathia); and low-set ears that are rotated backward.  People with Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome are often said to have a marfanoid habitus, because their bodies resemble those of people with a genetic condition called Marfan syndrome. For example, they may have long, slender fingers (arachnodactyly), unusually long limbs, a sunken chest (pectus excavatum) or protruding chest (pectus carinatum), and an abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis). People with Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome can have other skeletal abnormalities, such as one or more fingers that are permanently bent (camptodactyly) and an unusually large range of joint movement (hypermobility).  People with Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome often have delayed development and mild to moderate intellectual disability.  Other common features of Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome include heart or brain abnormalities, weak muscle tone (hypotonia) in infancy, and a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia) or lower abdomen (inguinal hernia).  Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome has signs and symptoms similar to those of Marfan syndrome and another genetic condition called Loeys-Dietz syndrome. However, intellectual disability is more likely to occur in Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome than in the other two conditions. In addition, heart abnormalities are more common and usually more severe in Marfan syndrome and Loeys-Dietz syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Simple Kidney Cysts ?
Answer: Treatment is not needed for simple kidney cysts that do not cause any symptoms. Simple kidney cysts may be monitored with periodic ultrasounds.
                
Simple kidney cysts that are causing symptoms or blocking the flow of blood or urine through the kidney may need to be treated using a procedure called sclerotherapy. In sclerotherapy, the doctor punctures the cyst using a long needle inserted through the skin. Ultrasound is used to guide the needle to the cyst. The cyst is drained and then filled with a solution containing alcohol to make the kidney tissue harder. The procedure is usually performed on an outpatient basis with a local anesthetic.
                
If the cyst is large, surgery may be needed. Most surgeries can be performed using a laparoscopea special tool with a small, lighted video camera. The procedure is usually done under general anesthesia in a hospital. The surgeon drains the cyst and then removes or burns away its outer tissue. This type of surgery allows for a smaller incision and quicker recovery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to childhood myocerebrohepatopathy spectrum ?
Answer: MCHS is caused by mutations in the POLG gene. This gene provides instructions for making one part, the alpha subunit, of a protein called polymerase gamma (pol ). Pol  functions in mitochondria, which are structures within cells that use oxygen to convert the energy from food into a form cells can use. Mitochondria each contain a small amount of DNA, known as mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), which is essential for the normal function of these structures. Pol  "reads" sequences of mtDNA and uses them as templates to produce new copies of mtDNA in a process called DNA replication.  Most POLG gene mutations change single protein building blocks (amino acids) in the alpha subunit of pol . These changes result in a mutated pol  that has a reduced ability to replicate DNA. Although the mechanism is unknown, mutations in the POLG gene often result in fewer copies of mtDNA (mtDNA depletion), particularly in muscle, brain, or liver cells. MtDNA depletion causes a decrease in cellular energy, which could account for the signs and symptoms of MCHS.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Mucolipidosis type 4 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mucolipidosis type 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mucolipidosis type 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the abdominal wall musculature 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Gait disturbance 90% Hyperreflexia 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Photophobia 90% Retinopathy 90% Strabismus 90% EEG abnormality 50% Incoordination 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Nystagmus 50% Abnormal electroretinogram 7.5% Abnormal nasal morphology 7.5% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 7.5% Coarse facial features 7.5% Genu recurvatum 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Microdontia 7.5% Narrow forehead 7.5% Palmoplantar keratoderma 7.5% Abnormality of ganglioside metabolism - Abnormality of mucopolysaccharide metabolism - Abnormality of the abdomen - Absent speech - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Cerebellar atrophy - Cerebral dysmyelination - Decreased light- and dark-adapted electroretinogram amplitude - Developmental stagnation - Dysplastic corpus callosum - Dystonia - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability - Optic atrophy - Progressive retinal degeneration - Spastic tetraplegia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for ACTH-independent macronodular adrenal hyperplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hypercortisolism 90% Round face 90% Thin skin 90% Truncal obesity 90% Abnormality of the menstrual cycle 50% Behavioral abnormality 50% Bruising susceptibility 50% Diabetes mellitus 50% Hypertension 50% Hypertrichosis 50% Muscle weakness 50% Nephrolithiasis 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Meningioma 7.5% Adult onset - Agitation - Anxiety - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Decreased circulating ACTH level - Depression - Increased circulating cortisol level - Kyphosis - Macronodular adrenal hyperplasia - Mental deterioration - Mood changes - Neoplasm - Osteopenia - Osteoporosis - Primary hypercorticolism - Psychosis - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Sporadic - Striae distensae - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Abdominal Adhesions ?
Answer: Abdominal adhesions cannot be detected by tests or seen through imaging techniques such as x rays or ultrasound. Most abdominal adhesions are found during surgery performed to examine the abdomen. However, abdominal x rays, a lower gastrointestinal (GI) series, and computerized tomography (CT) scans can diagnose intestinal obstructions.
                
- Abdominal x rays use a small amount of radiation to create an image that is recorded on  film or a computer. An x ray is performed at a hospital or an outpatient center by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaging. An x ray does not require anesthesia. The person will lie on a table or stand during the x ray. The x-ray machine is positioned over the abdominal area. The person will hold his or her breath as the picture is taken so that the picture will not be blurry. The person may be asked to change position for additional pictures.   - A lower GI series is an x-ray exam that is used to look at the large intestine. The test is performed at a hospital or an outpatient center by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed. The health care provider may provide written bowel prep instructions to follow at home before the test. The person may be asked to follow a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the procedure. A laxative or an enema may be used before the test. A laxative is medication that loosens stool and increases bowel movements. An enema involves fl ushing water or laxative into the rectum using a special squirt bottle.  For the test, the person will lie on a table while the radiologist inserts a flexible tube into the persons anus. The large intestine is fi lled with barium, making signs of underlying problems show up more clearly on x rays.   - CT scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create images. The procedure is performed at a hospital or an outpatient center by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed. A CT scan may include the injection of a special dye, called contrast medium. The person will lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Cerebral Arteriosclerosis ?
Answer: Cerebral arteriosclerosis is the result of thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries in the brain. Symptoms of cerebral arteriosclerosis include headache, facial pain, and impaired vision.
                
Cerebral arteriosclerosis can cause serious health problems. If the walls of an artery are too thick, or a blood clot becomes caught in the narrow passage, blood flow to the brain can become blocked and cause an ischemic stroke. When the thickening and hardening is uneven, arterial walls can develop bulges (called aneurysms). If a bulge ruptures, bleeding in the brain can cause a hemorrhagic stroke. Both types of stroke can be fatal.
                
Cerebral arteriosclerosis is also related to a condition known as vascular dementia, in which small, symptom-free strokes cause cumulative damage and death to neurons (nerve cells) in the brain. Personality changes in the elderly, such as apathy, weeping, transient befuddlement, or irritability, might indicate that cerebral arteriosclerosis is present in the brain. Computer tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain can help reveal the presence of cerebral arteriosclerosis before ischemic strokes, hemorrhagic strokes, or vascular dementia develop.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia is a rare inherited condition characterized by abnormally thick bones and a shortage of red blood cells (anemia). Signs and symptoms of the condition become apparent in early childhood.  In affected individuals, the long bones in the arms and legs are unusually dense and wide. The bone changes specifically affect the shafts of the long bones, called diaphyses, and areas near the ends of the bones called metaphyses. The bone abnormalities can lead to bowing of the legs and difficulty walking.  Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia also causes scarring (fibrosis) of the bone marrow, which is the spongy tissue inside long bones where blood cells are formed. The abnormal bone marrow cannot produce enough red blood cells, which leads to anemia.Signs and symptoms of anemia that have been reported in people with Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia include extremely pale skin (pallor) and excessive tiredness (fatigue).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Kidney Stones in Adults ?
Answer: Four major types of kidney stones can form:
                
- Calcium stones are the most common type of kidney stone and occur in two major forms: calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate. Calcium oxalate stones are more common. Calcium oxalate stone formation may be caused by high calcium and high oxalate excretion. Calcium phosphate stones are caused by the combination of high urine calcium and alkaline urine, meaning the urine has a high pH.  - Uric acid stones form when the urine is persistently acidic. A diet rich in purinessubstances found in animal protein such as meats, fish, and shellfishmay increase uric acid in urine. If uric acid becomes concentrated in the urine, it can settle and form a stone by itself or along with calcium.  - Struvite stones result from kidney infections. Eliminating infected stones from the urinary tract and staying infection-free can prevent more struvite stones.  - Cystine stones result from a genetic disorder that causes cystine to leak through the kidneys and into the urine, forming crystals that tend to accumulate into stones.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Medullary cystic kidney disease 1 ?
Answer: Medullary cystic kidney disease (MCKD) is a chronic, progressive kidney disease characterized by the presence of small renal cysts that eventually lead to end stage renal failure. Symptoms typically appear at an average age of 28 years and may include polyuria (excessive production or passage of urine) and low urinary osmolality (decreased concentration) in the first morning urine. Later, symptoms of renal insufficiency typically progress to include anemia, metabolic acidosis and uremia. End stage renal disease (ESRD) eventually follows. There are 2 types of MCKD, which are both inherited in an autosomal dominant manner but are caused by mutations in different genes. MCKD 1 is caused by mutations in the MCKD1 gene (which has not yet been identified) and MCKD 2 is caused by mutations in the UMOD gene. The 2 types also differ by MCKD 1 being associated with ESRD at an average age of 62 years, while MCKD 2 is associated with ESRD around 32 years and is more likely to be associated with hyperuricemia and gout. Treatment for MCKD may include correction of water and electrolyte imbalances, and dialysis followed by renal transplantation for end-stage renal failure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Neurogenic diabetes insipidus ?
Answer: Neurogenic diabetes insipidus is a disease that causes frequent urination. This type of diabetes insipidus results from damage to the pituitary gland, which disrupts the normal storage and release of antidiuretic hormone (ADH). When this hormone reaches the kidneys, it directs them to make less urine. Damage to the pituitary gland can be caused by different diseases as well as by head injuries, neurosurgery, or genetic disorders. To treat the ADH deficiency that results from any kind of damage to the pituitary, a synthetic hormone called desmopressin can be taken by an injection, a nasal spray, or a pill.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Jejunal atresia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Jejunal atresia? Signs and symptoms of jejunal atresia vary but may include: Feeding difficulties Failure to thrive Vomiting bile (a bitter-tasting yellowish-green fluid) Abdominal swelling, especially the upper middle part just below the breast bone Absence of bowel movements after birth The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Jejunal atresia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Jejunal atresia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Syndromic microphthalmia, type 3 ?
Answer: Syndromic microphthalmia, type 3 is a rare condition that affects the eyes and other parts of the body. Babies with this condition are generally born without eyeballs (anophthalmia) or with eyes that are unusually small (microphthalmia). Both of these abnormalities can be associated with severe vision loss. Other signs and symptoms of syndromic microphthalmia, type 3 may include seizures, brain malformations, esophageal atresia, delayed motor development, learning disabilities, and sensorineural hearing loss. The condition is caused by changes (mutations) in the SOX2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Penile Cancer ?
Answer: Signs of penile cancer include sores, discharge, and bleeding. These and other signs may be caused by penile cancer or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         - Redness, irritation, or a sore on the penis.    - A lump on the penis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Niemann-Pick disease ?
Answer: Niemann-Pick disease types A and B is caused by mutations in the SMPD1 gene. This gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme called acid sphingomyelinase. This enzyme is found in lysosomes, which are compartments within cells that break down and recycle different types of molecules. Acid sphingomyelinase is responsible for the conversion of a fat (lipid) called sphingomyelin into another type of lipid called ceramide. Mutations in SMPD1 lead to a shortage of acid sphingomyelinase, which results in reduced break down of sphingomyelin, causing this fat to accumulate in cells. This fat buildup causes cells to malfunction and eventually die. Over time, cell loss impairs function of tissues and organs including the brain, lungs, spleen, and liver in people with Niemann-Pick disease types A and B.  Mutations in either the NPC1 or NPC2 gene cause Niemann-Pick disease type C. The proteins produced from these genes are involved in the movement of lipids within cells. Mutations in these genes lead to a shortage of functional protein, which prevents movement of cholesterol and other lipids, leading to their accumulation in cells. Because these lipids are not in their proper location in cells, many normal cell functions that require lipids (such as cell membrane formation) are impaired. The accumulation of lipids as well as the cell dysfunction eventually leads to cell death, causing the tissue and organ damage seen in Niemann-Pick disease types C1 and C2.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria:  - Baby's First Test: Methylmalonic Acidemia with Homocystinuria  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Disorders of Intracellular Cobalamin Metabolism  - Genetic Testing Registry: METHYLMALONIC ACIDURIA AND HOMOCYSTINURIA, cblF TYPE  - Genetic Testing Registry: METHYLMALONIC ACIDURIA AND HOMOCYSTINURIA, cblJ TYPE  - Genetic Testing Registry: Methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria  - Genetic Testing Registry: Methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria cblD   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Mitochondrial Myopathy ?
Answer: Mitochondrial myopathies are a group of neuromuscular diseases caused by damage to the mitochondriasmall, energy-producing structures that serve as the cells' "power plants." Nerve cells in the brain and muscles require a great deal of energy, and thus appear to be particularly damaged when mitochondrial dysfunction occurs. Some of the more common mitochondrial myopathies include Kearns-Sayre syndrome, myoclonus epilepsy with ragged-red fibers, and mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes. The symptoms of mitochondrial myopathies include muscle weakness or exercise intolerance, heart failure or rhythm disturbances, dementia, movement disorders, stroke-like episodes, deafness, blindness, droopy eyelids, limited mobility of the eyes, vomiting, and seizures. The prognosis for these disorders ranges in severity from progressive weakness to death. Most mitochondrial myopathies occur before the age of 20, and often begin with exercise intolerance or muscle weakness. During physical activity, muscles may become easily fatigued or weak. Muscle cramping is rare, but may occur. Nausea, headache, and breathlessness are also associated with these disorders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to complement component 2 deficiency ?
Answer: Complement component 2 deficiency is caused by mutations in the C2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making the complement component 2 protein, which helps regulate a part of the body's immune response known as the complement system. The complement system is a group of proteins that work together to destroy foreign invaders, trigger inflammation, and remove debris from cells and tissues. The complement component 2 protein is involved in the pathway that turns on (activates) the complement system when foreign invaders, such as bacteria, are detected.  The most common C2 gene mutation, which is found in more than 90 percent of people with complement component 2 deficiency, prevents the production of complement component 2 protein. A lack of this protein impairs activation of the complement pathway. As a result, the complement system's ability to fight infections is diminished. It is unclear how complement component 2 deficiency leads to an increase in autoimmune disorders. Researchers speculate that the dysfunctional complement system is unable to distinguish what it should attack, and it sometimes attacks normal tissues, leading to autoimmunity. Alternatively, the dysfunctional complement system may perform partial attacks on invading molecules, which leaves behind foreign fragments that are difficult to distinguish from the body's tissues, so the complement system sometimes attacks the body's own cells. It is likely that other factors, both genetic and environmental, play a role in the variability of the signs and symptoms of complement component 2 deficiency.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Leydig cell hypoplasia ?
Answer: Leydig cell hypoplasia is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Central Pain Syndrome ?
Answer: Central pain syndrome is a neurological condition caused by damage to or dysfunction of the central nervous system (CNS), which includes the brain, brainstem, and spinal cord. This syndrome can be caused by stroke, multiple sclerosis, tumors, epilepsy, brain or spinal cord trauma, or Parkinson's disease. The character of the pain associated with this syndrome differs widely among individuals partly because of the variety of potential causes. Central pain syndrome may affect a large portion of the body or may be more restricted to specific areas, such as hands or feet. The extent of pain is usually related to the cause of the CNS injury or damage. Pain is typically constant, may be moderate to severe in intensity, and is often made worse by touch, movement, emotions, and temperature changes, usually cold temperatures. Individuals experience one or more types of pain sensations, the most prominent being burning. Mingled with the burning may be sensations of "pins and needles;" pressing, lacerating, or aching pain; and brief, intolerable bursts of sharp pain similar to the pain caused by a dental probe on an exposed nerve. Individuals may have numbness in the areas affected by the pain. The burning and loss of touch sensations are usually most severe on the distant parts of the body, such as the feet or hands. Central pain syndrome often begins shortly after the causative injury or damage, but may be delayed by months or even years, especially if it is related to post-stroke pain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Scleroderma ?
Answer: Scleroderma is an autoimmune disorder that involves changes in the skin, blood vessels, muscles, and internal organs. There are two main types: localized scleroderma, which affects only the skin; and systemic scleroderma, which affects the blood vessels and internal organs, as well as the skin. These two main types also have different sub-types. Localized scleroderma can be divided in: Linear scleroderma (en coup de sabre) Morphea (localized, generalized, guttata and deep). Systemic scleroderma is subdivided in: Diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis (which includes CREST syndrome) Limited Systemic Sclerosis (or systemic sclerosis sine scleroderm). There are also cases of environmentally-induced scleroderma and cases where scleroderma is part of other rheumatic disorders, like rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or Sjogren syndrome. The underlying cause of scleroderma is currently unknown; however, some scientists suspect that it may be related to a buildup of collagen in the skin and other organs due to an abnormal immune system response. There is no cure, but various treatments can relieve symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Nail dysplasia, isolated congenital ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Nail dysplasia, isolated congenital? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Nail dysplasia, isolated congenital. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Concave nail - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome ?
Answer: Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome is an inherited condition that affects many parts of the body and has been described only in the Japanese population. Beginning in infancy or early childhood, affected individuals develop red, swollen lumps (nodular erythema) on the skin that occur most often in cold weather; recurrent fevers; and elongated fingers and toes with widened and rounded tips (clubbing).  Later in childhood, affected individuals develop joint pain and joint deformities called contractures that limit movement, particularly in the hands, wrists, and elbows. They also experience weakness and wasting of muscles, along with a loss of fatty tissue (lipodystrophy), mainly in the upper body. The combination of muscle and fat loss worsens over time, leading to an extremely thin (emaciated) appearance in the face, chest, and arms.  Other signs and symptoms of Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome can include an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly), a shortage of red blood cells (anemia), a reduced amount of blood clotting cells called platelets (thrombocytopenia), and abnormal deposits of calcium (calcification) in an area of the brain called the basal ganglia. Intellectual disability has been reported in some affected individuals.  The signs and symptoms of Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome overlap with those of two other conditions: one called joint contractures, muscular atrophy, microcytic anemia, and panniculitis-induced lipodystrophy (JMP) syndrome; and the other called chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature (CANDLE) syndrome. All three conditions are characterized by skin abnormalities and lipodystrophy. Although they are often considered separate disorders, they are caused by mutations in the same gene, and some researchers believe they may represent different forms of a single condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Genetic Brain Disorders ?
Answer: A genetic brain disorder is caused by a variation or a mutation in a gene. A variation is a different form of a gene. A mutation is a change in a gene. Genetic brain disorders affect the development and function of the brain.    Some genetic brain disorders are due to random gene mutations or mutations caused by environmental exposure, such as cigarette smoke. Other disorders are inherited, which means that a mutated gene or group of genes is passed down through a family. They can also be due to a combination of both genetic changes and other outside factors.    Some examples of genetic brain disorders include       - Leukodystrophies    - Phenylketonuria    - Tay-Sachs disease    - Wilson disease       Many people with genetic brain disorders fail to produce enough of certain proteins that influence brain development and function. These brain disorders can cause serious problems that affect the nervous system. Some have treatments to control symptoms. Some are life-threatening.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for chordoma ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of chordoma:  - Chordoma Foundation: Treatment  - Duke Spine Center  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chordoma  - Massachusetts General Hospital   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Ochoa syndrome ?
Answer: Ochoa syndrome is a disorder characterized by urinary problems and unusual facial expressions.  The urinary problems associated with Ochoa syndrome typically become apparent in early childhood or adolescence. People with this disorder may have difficulty controlling the flow of urine (incontinence), which can lead to bedwetting. Individuals with Ochoa syndrome may be unable to completely empty the bladder, often resulting in vesicoureteral reflux, a condition in which urine backs up into the ducts that normally carry it from each kidney to the bladder (the ureters). Urine may also accumulate in the kidneys (hydronephrosis). Vesicoureteral reflux and hydronephrosis can lead to frequent infections of the urinary tract and kidney inflammation (pyelonephritis), causing damage that may eventually result in kidney failure.  Individuals with Ochoa syndrome also exhibit a characteristic frown-like facial grimace when they try to smile or laugh, often described as inversion of facial expression. While this feature may appear earlier than the urinary tract symptoms, perhaps as early as an infant begins to smile, it is often not brought to medical attention.  Approximately two-thirds of individuals with Ochoa syndrome also experience problems with bowel function, such as constipation, loss of bowel control, or muscle spasms of the anus.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What to do for Celiac Disease ?
Answer: - Celiac disease is an immune disorder in which people cannot tolerate gluten because it damages the lining of their small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients.  - When people with celiac disease eat foods or use products containing gluten, their immune system responds by damaging or destroying villithe tiny, fingerlike projections on the inner lining of the small intestine.  - A person may experience digestive signs and symptoms, or symptoms in other parts of the body.  - Recognizing celiac disease can be difficult because some of its symptoms are similar to those of other diseases and conditions.  - Dermatitis herpetiformis is a chronic, itchy, blistering skin rashusually on the elbows, knees, buttocks, back, or scalpthat affects about 5 to 10 percent of people with celiac disease.  - Signs and symptoms of celiac disease vary from person to person because of numerous factors.  - Some people with celiac disease have no signs or symptoms; however, they can still develop complications of the disease over time. Long-term complications include malnutrition, liver diseases, intestinal cancer, and lymphoma.  - A health care provider diagnoses celiac disease with a medical and family history, a physical exam, blood tests, an intestinal biopsy, and a skin biopsy.  - Since celiac disease sometimes runs in families, blood relatives of people with celiac disease should talk with their health care provider about their chances of getting the disease.  - Most people with celiac disease have a significant improvement in symptoms when they follow a gluten-free diet.  - Health care providers typically refer people to a dietitian who specializes in treating people with the disease.  - The dietitian will give the person instructions for how to read food and product labels and identify ingredients that contain gluten.  - Medications, supplements, and other products may also contain a hidden source of gluten.  - People with celiac disease can eat a wellbalanced diet with a variety of foods.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Split hand urinary anomalies spina bifida ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Split hand urinary anomalies spina bifida? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Split hand urinary anomalies spina bifida. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the upper urinary tract 90% Finger syndactyly 90% Abnormality of the antitragus 50% Abnormality of the palate 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the nipples 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 50% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 50% Edema 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Myelomeningocele 50% Patent ductus arteriosus 50% Proximal placement of thumb 50% Sloping forehead 50% Spina bifida occulta 50% Split foot 50% Split hand 50% Thickened skin 50% Toe syndactyly 50% Upslanted palpebral fissure 50% Asymmetric growth 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Talipes 7.5% Tracheoesophageal fistula 7.5% Webbed neck 7.5% Abnormality of the diaphragm - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cutaneous finger syndactyly - Hydronephrosis - Thoracolumbar scoliosis - Ureteral atresia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Erb-Duchenne and Dejerine-Klumpke Palsies ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on injuries to the nervous system such as brachial plexus injuries. Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to paroxysmal extreme pain disorder ?
Answer: Mutations in the SCN9A gene cause paroxysmal extreme pain disorder. The SCN9A gene provides instructions for making one part (the alpha subunit) of a sodium channel called NaV1.7. Sodium channels transport positively charged sodium atoms (sodium ions) into cells and play a key role in a cell's ability to generate and transmit electrical signals. NaV1.7 sodium channels are found in nerve cells called nociceptors that transmit pain signals to the spinal cord and brain.  The SCN9A gene mutations that cause paroxysmal extreme pain disorder result in NaV1.7 sodium channels that do not close completely when it is turned off, allowing sodium ions to flow abnormally into nociceptors. This increase in sodium ions enhances transmission of pain signals, leading to the pain attacks experienced by people with paroxysmal extreme pain disorder. It is unknown why the pain attacks associated with this condition change location over time or what causes the other features of this condition such as seizures and changes in breathing.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Pachygyria ?
Answer: What causes pachygyria? Pachygyria, also called "incomplete lissencephaly," may be caused by various non-genetic (environmental) and genetic factors that play a role in impairing the development of the outer region of the brain (the cerebral cortex). The cerebral cortex is responsible for conscious movement and thought, and should have deep convolutions (gyri) and grooves (sulci), which are formed by "infolding" of the cerebral cortex. During normal embryonic growth, immature cells that later develop into specialized nerve cells (neurons) normally migrate to the brain's surface, making several layers of cells. When this process is impaired, the cells don't migrate to their locations, resulting in too few cell layers and absence (agyria) or incomplete development (pachygyria) of gyri. Environmental factors that contribute to the condition may include intrauterine infection during pregnancy (such as a virus), and insufficient flow of oxygenated blood to the brain (ischemia) during fetal development. More than 25 syndromes due to abnormal migration of neurons have been reported; in some of these cases, the genetic cause and pattern of inheritance depends on that of the specific syndrome. Mutations in several genes have been identified in people with abnormalities of cortical development, including the KIF5C, KIF2A, DYNC1H1, WDR62, and TUBG1 genes. Studies have also found that isolated lissencephaly may result from mutations in the LIS1 and XLIS (also called DCX) genes. People interested in learning about the cause of pachygyria in themselves or family members should speak with their health care provider or a a genetics professional.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Multicentric reticulohistiocytosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Multicentric reticulohistiocytosis? The main symptoms of multicentric reticulohistiocytosis are arthritis and red to purple skin nodules varying in size from 1 to 10 mm. The nodules can be found on any part of the body but tend to concentrate on the face and hands and decrease in number from head to toe. The arthritis is most often symmetrical and polyarticular (affecting many joints). Unlike adult rheumatoid arthritis, it does not spare the joints closest to the fingertips. It can be severely destructive, and in one third of cases it progresses to arthritis multilans. Further history reveals that approximately one third of patients complain of symptoms such as fever, weight loss, and malaise; less often, pericarditis and myositis are present. The clinical presentation of multicentric reticulohistiocytosis is insidious in onset and begins with arthritic complaints in approximately two thirds of patients.  It is potentially one of the most rapidly destructive forms of arthritis. Joint involvement remits and relapses, gradually worsening into a debilitating and permanent arthritis multilans.  The severity of the damage has been reported to be related to the age of onset; therefore, the earlier one has symptoms, the more severe the symptoms tend to be.  Like the associated arthritis, skin lesions tend to wax and wane until the disease spontaneously resolves, but may leave permanent disfigurement. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Multicentric reticulohistiocytosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the oral cavity 90% Abnormality of the skin 90% Arthritis 90% Abnormality of temperature regulation 7.5% Decreased body weight 7.5% Muscle weakness 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the paranasal sinuses and nasal cavity.    - Different types of cells in the paranasal sinus and nasal cavity may become malignant.    - Being exposed to certain chemicals or dust in the workplace can increase the risk of paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer.     - Signs of paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer include sinus problems and nosebleeds.    - Tests that examine the sinuses and nasal cavity are used to detect (find) and diagnose paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the paranasal sinuses and nasal cavity.
                    Paranasal sinuses    "Paranasal" means near the nose. The paranasal sinuses are hollow, air-filled spaces in the bones around the nose. The sinuses are lined with cells that make mucus, which keeps the inside of the nose from drying out during breathing.     There are several paranasal sinuses named after the bones that surround them:         - The frontal sinuses are in the lower forehead above the nose.    - The maxillary sinuses are in the cheekbones on either side of the nose.    - The ethmoid sinuses are beside the upper nose, between the eyes.    - The sphenoid sinuses are behind the nose, in the center of the skull.         Nasal cavity    The nose opens into the nasal cavity, which is divided into two nasal passages. Air moves through these passages during breathing. The nasal cavity lies above the bone that forms the roof of the mouth and curves down at the back to join the throat. The area just inside the nostrils is called the nasal vestibule. A small area of special cells in the roof of each nasal passage sends signals to the brain to give the sense of smell.   Together the paranasal sinuses and the nasal cavity filter and warm the air, and make it moist before it goes into the lungs. The movement of air through the sinuses and other parts of the respiratory system help make sounds for talking.     Paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer is a type of head and neck cancer.
                
                
                    Different types of cells in the paranasal sinus and nasal cavity may become malignant.
                    The most common type of paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer is squamous cell carcinoma. This type of cancer forms in the squamous cells (thin, flat cells) lining the inside of the paranasal sinuses and the nasal cavity.    Other types of paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer include the following:         -  Melanoma: Cancer that starts in cells called melanocytes, the cells that give skin its natural color.    -  Sarcoma: Cancer that starts in muscle or connective tissue.    -  Inverting papilloma: Benign tumors that form inside the nose. A small number of these change into cancer.    - Midline granulomas: Cancer of tissues in the middle part of the face.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of TH deficiency is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Paget disease of bone ?
Answer: A combination of genetic and environmental factors likely play a role in causing Paget disease of bone. Researchers have identified changes in several genes that increase the risk of the disorder. Other factors, including infections with certain viruses, may be involved in triggering the disease in people who are at risk. However, the influence of genetic and environmental factors on the development of Paget disease of bone remains unclear.  Researchers have identified variations in three genes that are associated with Paget disease of bone: SQSTM1, TNFRSF11A, and TNFRSF11B. Mutations in the SQSTM1 gene are the most common genetic cause of classic Paget disease of bone, accounting for 10 to 50 percent of cases that run in families and 5 to 30 percent of cases in which there is no family history of the disease. Variations in the TNFRSF11B gene also appear to increase the risk of the classic form of the disorder, particularly in women. TNFRSF11A mutations cause the early-onset form of Paget disease of bone.  The SQSTM1, TNFRSF11A, and TNFRSF11B genes are involved in bone remodeling, a normal process in which old bone is broken down and new bone is created to replace it. Bones are constantly being remodeled, and the process is carefully controlled to ensure that bones stay strong and healthy. Paget disease of bone disrupts the bone remodeling process. Affected bone is broken down abnormally and then replaced much faster than usual. When the new bone tissue grows, it is larger, weaker, and less organized than normal bone. It is unclear why these problems with bone remodeling affect some bones but not others in people with this disease.  Researchers are looking for additional genes that may influence a person's chances of developing Paget disease of bone. Studies suggest that genetic variations in certain regions of chromosome 2, chromosome 5, and chromosome 10 appear to contribute to disease risk. However, the associated genes on these chromosomes have not been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) E. Coli Infections ?
Answer: E. coli is the name of a type of bacteria that lives in your intestines. Most types of E. coli are harmless. However, some types can make you sick and cause diarrhea. One type causes travelers' diarrhea. The worst type of E. coli causes bloody diarrhea, and can sometimes cause kidney failure and even death. These problems are most likely to occur in children and in adults with weak immune systems.     You can get E. coli infections by eating foods containing the bacteria. Symptoms of infection include       - Nausea or vomiting    - Severe abdominal cramps    - Watery or very bloody diarrhea    - Fatigue    - Fever       To help avoid food poisoning and prevent infection, handle food safely. Cook meat well, wash fruits and vegetables before eating or cooking them, and avoid unpasteurized milk and juices. You can also get the infection by swallowing water in a swimming pool contaminated with human waste.    Most cases of E. coli infection get better without treatment in 5 to 10 days.    NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Arachnoid Cysts ?
Answer: Arachnoid cysts are cerebrospinal fluid-filled sacs that are located between the brain or spinal cord and the arachnoid membrane, one of the three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. Primary arachnoid cysts are present at birth and are the result of developmental abnormalities in the brain and spinal cord that arise during the early weeks of gestation. Secondary arachnoid cysts are not as common as primary cysts and develop as a result of head injury, meningitis, or tumors, or as a complication of brain surgery. The majority of arachnoid cysts form outside the temporal lobe of the brain in an area of the skull known as the middle cranial fossa. Arachnoid cysts involving the spinal cord are rarer. The location and size of the cyst determine the symptoms and when those symptoms begin. Most individuals with arachnoid cysts develop symptoms before the age of 20, and especially during the first year of life, but some people with arachnoid cysts never have symptoms. Males are four times more likely to have arachnoid cysts than females.
                
Typical symptoms of an arachnoid cyst around the brain include headache, nausea and vomiting, seizures, hearing and visual disturbances, vertigo, and difficulties with balance and walking. Arachnoid cysts around the spinal cord compress the spinal cord or nerve roots and cause symptoms such as progressive back and leg pain and tingling or numbness in the legs or arms. Diagnosis usually involves a brain scan or spine scan using diffusion-weighted MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) which helps distinguish fluid-filled arachnoid cysts from other types of cysts.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Prosopagnosia ?
Answer: Prosopagnosia is a neurological disorder characterized by the inability to recognize faces. Prosopagnosia is also known as face blindness or facial agnosia. The term prosopagnosia comes from the Greek words for face and lack of knowledge. Depending upon the degree of impairment, some people with prosopagnosia may only have difficulty recognizing a familiar face; others will be unable to discriminate between unknown faces, while still others may not even be able to distinguish a face as being different from an object. Some people with the disorder are unable to recognize their own face. Prosopagnosia is not related to memory dysfunction, memory loss, impaired vision, or learning disabilities. Prosopagnosia is thought to be the result of abnormalities, damage, or impairment in the right fusiform gyrus, a fold in the brain that appears to coordinate the neural systems that control facial perception and memory. Prosopagnosia can result from stroke, traumatic brain injury, or certain neurodegenerative diseases. In some cases it is a congenital disorder, present at birth in the absence of any brain damage. Congenital prosopagnosia appears to run in families, which makes it likely to be the result of a genetic mutation or deletion. Some degree of prosopagnosia is often present in children with autism and Aspergers syndrome, and may be the cause of their impaired social development.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How to diagnose Geniospasm ?
Answer: How might hereditary geniospasm be diagnosed? Although we were unable to locate laboratories offering genetic testing for hereditary geniospasm, the condition can be diagnosed on the basis of a clinical evaluation performed by a health care professional such as a neurologist who specializes in movement disorders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Behr syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Behr syndrome? People with Behr syndrome typically have visual disturbances (e.g. optic atrophy, nystagmus), ataxia, and spasticity. Other signs and symptoms that may be present in patients with Behr syndrome include intellectual disability, loss of bladder control, and variable pyramidal tract dysfunction (e.g., increased tone in certain muscles, paralysis of voluntary movements, Babinski sign, increased deep tendon reflexes), peripheral neuropathy, dementia, and muscle contractures. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Behr syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of color vision 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Hypertonia 90% Incoordination 90% Nystagmus 90% Optic atrophy 90% Strabismus 90% Visual impairment 50% Achilles tendon contracture - Adductor longus contractures - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Cerebellar atrophy - Gait disturbance - Hamstring contractures - Hyperreflexia - Intellectual disability - Progressive spasticity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Shingles ?
Answer: Burning, Itching, Tingling, Then a Rash  An outbreak of shingles usually begins with a burning, itching, or tingling sensation on the back, chest, or around the rib cage or waist. It is also common for the face or eye area to be affected. (Watch the video to learn more about one woman's experience with shingles. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) Some people report feeling feverish and weak during the early stages. Usually within 48 to 72 hours, a red, blotchy rash develops on the affected area. The rash erupts into small blisters that look like chickenpox. The blisters seem to arrive in waves over a period of three to five days. Blisters The blisters tend to be clustered in one specific area, rather than being scattered all over the body like chickenpox. The torso or face are the parts most likely to be affected, but on occasion, shingles breaks out in the lower body. The burning sensation in the rash area is often accompanied by shooting pains. After the blisters erupt, the open sores take a week or two to crust over. The sores are usually gone within another two weeks. The pain may diminish somewhat, but it often continues for months -- and can go on for years. Pain Shingles can be quite painful. Many shingles patients say that it was the intense pain that ultimately sent them to their healthcare provider. They often report that the sensation of anything brushing across the inflamed nerve endings on the skin is almost unbearable. Diagnosis is Usually Easy for Healthcare Providers A typical shingles case is easy to diagnose. A healthcare provider might suspect shingles if - the rash is only on one side of the body   - the rash erupts along one of the many nerve paths, called dermatomes, that stem from the spine. the rash is only on one side of the body the rash erupts along one of the many nerve paths, called dermatomes, that stem from the spine. A healthcare provider usually confirms a diagnosis of shingles if the person also - reports a sharp, burning pain   - has had chickenpox   - has blisters that look like chickenpox   - is elderly. reports a sharp, burning pain has had chickenpox has blisters that look like chickenpox is elderly. If the Diagnosis Is Unclear Some people go to their healthcare provider because of burning, painful, itchy sensations on one area of skin, but they don't get a rash. If there is no rash, the symptoms can be difficult to diagnose because they can be mistaken for numerous other diseases. In cases where there is no rash or the diagnosis is questionable, healthcare providers can do a blood test. If there is a rash, but it does not resemble the usual shingles outbreak, a healthcare provider can examine skin scrapings from the sores.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia X-linked ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia X-linked? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia X-linked. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anterior wedging of T11 - Anterior wedging of T12 - Brachydactyly syndrome - Broad long bone diaphyses - Broad metacarpals - Broad phalanx - Cone-shaped epiphyses fused within their metaphyses - Cone-shaped epiphyses of the phalanges of the hand - Cone-shaped metacarpal epiphyses - Coxa valga - Disproportionate short-trunk short stature - Flat acetabular roof - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Hypoplasia of the odontoid process - Kyphosis - Limited elbow extension - Long fibula - Long ulna - Metaphyseal irregularity - Narrow pelvis bone - Pectus carinatum - Platyspondyly - Posterior rib cupping - Prominent styloid process of ulna - Radial deviation of the hand - Short clavicles - Short foot - Short long bone - Short metacarpal - Short palm - Short phalanx of finger - Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Skin Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Skin cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the skin.    - Nonmelanoma skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States.    - Being exposed to ultraviolet radiation may increase the risk of skin cancer.
                
                
                    Skin cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the skin.
                    The skin is the body's largest organ. It protects against heat, sunlight, injury, and infection. Skin also helps control body temperature and stores water, fat, and vitamin D. The skin has several layers, but the two main layers are the epidermis (top or outer layer) and the dermis (lower or inner layer). Skin cancer begins in the epidermis, which is made up of three kinds of cells:         -  Squamous cells: Thin, flat cells that form the top layer of the epidermis. Cancer that forms in squamous cells is called squamous cell carcinoma.    -  Basal cells: Round cells under the squamous cells. Cancer that forms in basal cells is called basal cell carcinoma.    -  Melanocytes: Found in the lower part of the epidermis, these cells make melanin, the pigment that gives skin its natural color. When skin is exposed to the sun, melanocytes make more pigment and cause the skin to tan, or darken. Cancer that forms in melanocytes is called melanoma.
                
                
                    Nonmelanoma skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States.
                    Basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma are also called nonmelanoma skin cancer and are the most common forms of skin cancer. Most basal cell and squamous cell skin cancers can be cured.    Melanoma is more likely to spread to nearby tissues and other parts of the body and can be harder to cure. Melanoma is easier to cure if the tumor is found before it spreads to the dermis (inner layer of skin). Melanoma is less likely to cause death when it is found and treated early.    In the United States, the number of cases of nonmelanoma skin cancer seems to have increased in recent years. The number of cases of melanoma has increased over the last 30 years. Part of the reason for these increases may be that people are more aware of skin cancer. They are more likely to have skin exams and biopsies and to be diagnosed with skin cancer.   Over the past 20 years, the number of deaths from melanoma has decreased slightly among white men and women younger than 50 years. During that time, the number of deaths from melanoma has increased slightly among white men older than 50 years and stayed about the same among white women older than 50 years.   The number of cases of childhood melanoma diagnosed in the United States is low, but increasing over time. The number of childhood deaths from melanoma has stayed about the same.   See the following PDQ summaries for more information about skin cancer:         -   Skin Cancer Prevention     -  Skin Cancer Treatment     -  Melanoma Treatment     -  Genetics of Skin Cancer
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Spondylocostal dysostosis 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spondylocostal dysostosis 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spondylocostal dysostosis 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of immune system physiology 90% Abnormality of the intervertebral disk 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Scoliosis 90% Short neck 90% Short stature 90% Short thorax 90% Vertebral segmentation defect 90% Kyphosis 50% Restrictive respiratory insufficiency 44% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of the ureter 7.5% Anomalous pulmonary venous return 7.5% Anteverted nares 7.5% Broad forehead 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Depressed nasal bridge 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Meningocele 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Prominent occiput 7.5% Spina bifida occulta 7.5% Umbilical hernia 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Disproportionate short-trunk short stature - Recurrent respiratory infections - Rib fusion - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Senior-Lken syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Senior-Lken syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Senior-Loken syndrome 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Senior-Loken syndrome 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Senior-Loken syndrome 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Senior-Loken syndrome 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Senior-Loken syndrome 6  - Genetic Testing Registry: Senior-Loken syndrome 7   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Pallister-Hall syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits a mutation in the GLI3 gene from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to prevent Balance Problems ?
Answer: Scientists are working to understand the complex interactions between the brain and the part of the inner ear responsible for balance. They are also studying the effectiveness of certain exercises as a treatment option for balance disorders. An NIDCD-supported clinical trial in benign paroxysmal positioning vertigo (BPPV) showed that repositioning maneuvers work well, and offered clinicians a range of choices in selecting the treatment best suited to each individuals unique needs. NIDCD-funded researchers have created a virtual reality grocery store. This virtual store is a computer-simulated environment that seems to be a physical place in the real world. It is designed so people with balance disorders can safely walk on a treadmill as they practice looking for items on store shelves. The goal is to help reduce a person's dizziness in confusing environments. NIDCD-supported scientists are also studying the use of a vestibular implant to stop a Mnires attack by restoring normal electrical activity in the vestibular nerve. This nerve conveys balance information to the brain. The device uses the same technology found in a cochlear implant, a medical device that currently provides a sense of sound to people who are deaf or hard-of-hearing.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Decreased nerve conduction velocity 90% Muscle weakness 90% Pes cavus 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 90% Cognitive impairment 50% Hearing impairment 50% Impaired pain sensation 50% Kyphosis 50% Scoliosis 50% Gait disturbance 7.5% Incoordination 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% Tremor 7.5% Sensorineural hearing impairment 5% Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Intellectual disability - Motor axonal neuropathy - Sensory neuropathy - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis ?
Answer: HGPPS is caused by mutations in the ROBO3 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is important for the normal development of certain nerve pathways in the brain. These include motor nerve pathways, which transmit information about voluntary muscle movement, and sensory nerve pathways, which transmit information about sensory input (such as touch, pain, and temperature). For the brain and the body to communicate effectively, these nerve pathways must cross from one side of the body to the other in the brainstem, a region that connects the upper parts of the brain with the spinal cord.  The ROBO3 protein plays a critical role in ensuring that motor and sensory nerve pathways cross over in the brainstem. In people with HGPPS, these pathways do not cross over, but stay on the same side of the body. Researchers believe that this miswiring in the brainstem is the underlying cause of the eye movement abnormalities associated with the disorder. The cause of progressive scoliosis in HGPPS is unclear. Researchers are working to determine why the effects of ROBO3 mutations appear to be limited to horizontal eye movement and scoliosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Microscopic Colitis: Collagenous Colitis and Lymphocytic Colitis ?
Answer: Microscopic colitis is an inflammation of the colon that a health care provider can see only with a microscope. Inflammation is the bodys normal response to injury, irritation, or infection of tissues. Microscopic colitis is a type of inflammatory bowel diseasethe general name for diseases that cause irritation and inflammation in the intestines.
                
The two types of microscopic colitis are collagenous colitis and lymphocytic colitis. Health care providers often use the term microscopic colitis to describe both types because their symptoms and treatments are the same. Some scientists believe that collagenous colitis and lymphocytic colitis may be different phases of the same condition rather than separate conditions.
                
In both types of microscopic colitis, an increase in the number of lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell, can be seen in the epitheliumthe layer of cells that lines the colon. An increase in the number of white blood cells is a sign of inflammation. The two types of colitis affect the colon tissue in slightly different ways:
                
- Lymphocytic colitis. The number of lymphocytes is higher, and the tissues and lining of the colon are of normal thickness.  - Collagenous colitis. The layer of collagen, a threadlike protein, underneath the epithelium builds up and becomes thicker than normal.
                
When looking through a microscope, the health care provider may find variations in lymphocyte numbers and collagen thickness in different parts of the colon. These variations may indicate an overlap of the two types of microscopic colitis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Friedreich's Ataxia ?
Answer: Friedreich's ataxia is an inherited disease that damages your nervous system. The damage affects your spinal cord and the nerves that control muscle movement in your arms and legs. Symptoms usually begin between the ages of 5 and 15. The main symptom is ataxia, which means trouble coordinating movements. Specific symptoms include       - Difficulty walking    -  Muscle weakness    -  Speech problems    -  Involuntary eye movements    -  Scoliosis (curving of the spine to one side)    -  Heart palpitations, from the heart disease which can happen along with Friedreich's ataxia       People with Friedreich's ataxia usually need a wheelchair 15 to 20 years after symptoms first appear. In severe cases, people become incapacitated. There is no cure. You can treat symptoms with medicines, braces, surgery, and physical therapy.    NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the stages of Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - After ovarian low malignant potential tumor has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if abnormal cells have spread within the ovary or to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for ovarian low malignant potential tumor:          - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After ovarian low malignant potential tumor has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if abnormal cells have spread within the ovary or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out whether abnormal cells have spread within the ovary or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. Certain tests or procedures are used for staging. Staging laparotomy (a surgical incision made in the wall of the abdomen to remove ovarian tissue) may be used. Most patients are diagnosed with stage I disease.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for ovarian low malignant potential tumor:
                    Stage I    In stage I, the tumor is found in one or both ovaries. Stage I is divided into stage IA, stage IB, and stage IC.             -  Stage IA: The tumor is found inside a single ovary.      -  Stage IB: The tumor is found inside both ovaries.      -  Stage IC: The tumor is found inside one or both ovaries and one of the following is true:                   - tumor cells are found on the outside surface of one or both ovaries; or        - the capsule (outer covering) of the ovary has ruptured (broken open); or        - tumor cells are found in the fluid of the peritoneal cavity (the body cavity that contains most of the organs in the abdomen) or in washings of the peritoneum (tissue lining the peritoneal cavity).                          Stage II    In stage II, the tumor is found in one or both ovaries and has spread into other areas of the pelvis. Stage II is divided into stage IIA, stage IIB, and stage IIC.             -  Stage IIA: The tumor has spread to the uterus and/or fallopian tubes (the long slender tubes through which eggs pass from the ovaries to the uterus).      -  Stage IIB: The tumor has spread to other tissue within the pelvis.      -  Stage IIC: The tumor is found inside one or both ovaries and has spread to the uterus and/or fallopian tubes, or to other tissue within the pelvis. Also, one of the following is true:                  - tumor cells are found on the outside surface of one or both ovaries; or       - the capsule (outer covering) of the ovary has ruptured (broken open); or       - tumor cells are found in the fluid of the peritoneal cavity (the body cavity that contains most of the organs in the abdomen) or in washings of the peritoneum (tissue lining the peritoneal cavity).                         Stage III     In stage III, the tumor is found in one or both ovaries and has spread outside the pelvis to other parts of the abdomen and/or nearby lymph nodes. Stage III is divided into stage IIIA, stage IIIB, and stage IIIC.             -  Stage IIIA: The tumor is found in the pelvis only, but tumor cells that can be seen only with a microscope have spread to the surface of the peritoneum (tissue that lines the abdominal wall and covers most of the organs in the abdomen), the small intestines, or the tissue that connects the small intestines to the wall of the abdomen.      -  Stage IIIB: The tumor has spread to the peritoneum and the tumor in the peritoneum is 2 centimeters or smaller.      -  Stage IIIC: The tumor has spread to the peritoneum and the tumor in the peritoneum is larger than 2 centimeters and/or has spread to lymph nodes in the abdomen.           The spread of tumor cells to the surface of the liver is also considered stage III disease.        Stage IV     In stage IV, tumor cells have spread beyond the abdomen to other parts of the body, such as the lungs or tissue inside the liver.     Tumor cells in the fluid around the lungs is also considered stage IV disease.     Ovarian low malignant potential tumors almost never reach stage IV.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Dent disease 1 ?
Answer: Dent disease type 1 is a kidney disease seen mostly in males. The most frequent sign of Dent disease is the presence of an abnormally large amount of protein in the urine (proteinuria). Other common signs of the disorder include excess calcium in the urine (hypercalciuria), calcium deposits in the kidney (nephrocalcinosis), and kidney stones (nephrolithiasis). In many males with Dent disease, progressive kidney problems lead to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in early to mid-adulthood. ESRD ia a failure of kidney function that occurs when the kidneys are no longer able to effectively filter fluids and waste products from the body. Disease severity can vary even among members of the same family. Dent disease type 1 is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. Approximately 60% of individuals with Dent disease 1 have a mutation in the CLCN5 gene which is located on the X chromosome. Due to random X-chromosome inactivation, some female carriers may manifest hypercalciuria and, rarely, proteinuria.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Landau-Kleffner syndrome ?
Answer: How is Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS) diagnosed? LKS is diagnosed based on clinical features and the results of an electroencephalogram (EEG), a recording of the electric activity of the brain. All LKS children have abnormal electrical brain activity on both the right and left sides of their brains.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is adult polyglucosan body disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for vitiligo ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of vitiligo:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Vitiligo  - Vitiligo Support International: Vitiligo Treatments and Research   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Turner syndrome ?
Answer: This condition occurs in about 1 in 2,500 newborn girls worldwide, but it is much more common among pregnancies that do not survive to term (miscarriages and stillbirths).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gallbladder Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiation sensitizers    Clinical trials are studying ways to improve the effect of radiation therapy on tumor cells, including the following:            -  Hyperthermia therapy: A treatment in which body tissue is exposed to high temperatures to damage and kill cancer cells or to make cancer cells more sensitive to the effects of radiation therapy and certain anticancer drugs.     -  Radiosensitizers: Drugs that make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Giving radiation therapy together with radiosensitizers may kill more tumor cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Nephrolithiasis 5% Peptic ulcer 5% Chondrocalcinosis - Hypercalcemia - Hypermagnesemia - Hypocalciuria - Multiple lipomas - Pancreatitis - Parathormone-independent increased renal tubular calcium reabsorption - Primary hyperparathyroidism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes ?
Answer: - Insulin is a hormone that helps cells throughout the body absorb glucose and use it for energy. Insulin resistance is a condition in which the body produces insulin but does not use it effectively.  - Insulin resistance increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes and prediabetes.  - The major contributors to insulin resistance are excess weight, especially around the waist, and physical inactivity.  - Prediabetes is a condition in which blood glucose or A1C levelswhich reflect average blood glucose levelsare higher than normal but not high enough for a diagnosis of diabetes.  - The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) study and its follow-up study, the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS), confirmed that people with prediabetes can often prevent or delay diabetes if they lose a modest amount of weight by cutting fat and calorie intake and increasing physical activity.  - By losing weight and being more physically active, people can reverse insulin resistance and prediabetes, thus preventing or delaying type 2 diabetes.  - People with insulin resistance and prediabetes can decrease their risk for diabetes by eating a healthy diet and reaching and maintaining a healthy weight, increasing physical activity, not smoking, and taking medication.  - The DPP showed the diabetes medication metformin to be most effective in preventing or delaying the development of type 2 diabetes in younger and heavier people with prediabetes and women who have had gestational diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Talonavicular coalition ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Talonavicular coalition? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Talonavicular coalition. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Clinodactyly of the 5th finger - Proximal/middle symphalangism of 5th finger - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by otopalatodigital syndrome type 2 ?
Answer: Otopalatodigital syndrome type 2 is a rare disorder, affecting fewer than 1 in every 100,000 individuals. Its specific incidence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Autoimmune Hepatitis ?
Answer: Autoimmune diseases are disorders in which the body's immune system attacks the body's own cells and organs with proteins called autoantibodies; this process is called autoimmunity.
                
The body's immune system normally makes large numbers of proteins called antibodies to help the body fight off infections. In some cases, however, the body makes autoantibodies. Certain environmental triggers can lead to autoimmunity. Environmental triggers are things originating outside the body, such as bacteria, viruses, toxins, and medications.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How to diagnose Chronic Myeloproliferative Neoplasms ?
Answer: Tests that examine the blood and bone marrow are used to detect (find) and diagnose chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   Complete blood count (CBC) with differential : A procedure in which a sample of blood is drawn and checked for the following:                - The number of red blood cells and platelets.       - The number and type of white blood cells.      - The amount of hemoglobin (the protein that carries oxygen) in the red blood cells.       - The portion of the blood sample made up of red blood cells.              -   Peripheral blood smear : A procedure in which a sample of blood is checked for the following:                - Whether there are red blood cells shaped like teardrops.      - The number and kinds of white blood cells.      - The number of platelets.      - Whether there are blast cells.              -   Blood chemistry studies : A procedure in which a blood sample is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances released into the blood by organs and tissues in the body. An unusual (higher or lower than normal) amount of a substance can be a sign of disease.    -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow, blood, and a small piece of bone by inserting a hollow needle into the hipbone or breastbone. A pathologist views the bone marrow, blood, and bone under a microscope to look for abnormal cells.    -   Cytogenetic analysis : A test in which cells in a sample of blood or bone marrow are viewed under a microscope to look for certain changes in the chromosomes. Certain diseases or disorders may be diagnosed or ruled out based on the chromosomal changes.    -   Gene mutation test: A laboratory test done on a bone marrow or blood sample to check for mutations in  JAK2 ,  MPL , or  CALR genes. A JAK2 gene mutation is often found in patients with polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, or primary myelofibrosis. MPL or CALR gene mutations are found in patients with essential thrombocythemia or primary myelofibrosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Glutamine deficiency, congenital ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Glutamine deficiency, congenital? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Glutamine deficiency, congenital. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Death in infancy 7.5% Flexion contracture 5% Micromelia 5% Apnea - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bradycardia - Brain atrophy - CNS hypomyelination - Depressed nasal bridge - Encephalopathy - Hyperammonemia - Hyperreflexia - Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum - Low-set ears - Muscular hypotonia - Periventricular cysts - Respiratory insufficiency - Seizures - Severe global developmental delay - Skin rash - Subependymal cysts - Ventriculomegaly - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1? Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 (PCH1) may first present in the prenatal period with reduced fetal movement. Polyhydramnios may also be noted. In most cases, the condition is obvious in the newborn period when respiratory insufficiency and muscle weakness present. Multiple contractures may also be present at birth, along with other motor impairment. Mental retardation and other signs of cerebellar disruption, including visual impairment, nystagmus and ataxia, may follow the initial presentation. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 90% Cerebral cortical atrophy 90% Hypertonia 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Microcephaly 90% Seizures 90% Deviation of finger 50% Abnormality of the foot - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Basal ganglia gliosis - Cerebellar hypoplasia - Congenital contracture - Congenital onset - Degeneration of anterior horn cells - EMG: neuropathic changes - Fasciculations - Feeding difficulties in infancy - Hyperreflexia - Hypoplasia of the pons - Hypoplasia of the ventral pons - Intellectual disability - Muscle weakness - Muscular hypotonia - Neuronal loss in basal ganglia - Progressive - Respiratory insufficiency - Spinal muscular atrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Spondylocostal dysostosis 1 ?
Answer: Spondylocostal dysostosis is a group of conditions characterized by abnormal development of the bones in the spine and ribs. In the spine, the vertebrae are misshapen and fused. Many people with this condition have an abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis). The ribs may be fused together or missing. These bone malformations lead to short, rigid necks and short midsections. Infants with spondylocostal dysostosis have small, narrow chests that cannot fully expand. This can lead to life-threatening breathing problems. Males with this condition are at an increased risk for inguinal hernia, where the diaphragm is pushed down, causing the abdomen to bulge out. There are several types of spondylocostal dysostosis. These types have similar features and are distinguished by their genetic cause and how they are inherited.  Spondylocostal dysostosis 1 is caused by mutations in the DLL3 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include respiratory support and surgery to correct inguinal hernia and scoliosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Farber lipogranulomatosis ?
Answer: Farber lipogranulomatosis is a rare inherited condition involving the breakdown and use of fats in the body (lipid metabolism). In affected individuals, lipids accumulate abnormally in cells and tissues throughout the body, particularly around the joints.  Three classic signs occur in Farber lipogranulomatosis: a hoarse voice or a weak cry, small lumps of fat under the skin and in other tissues (lipogranulomas), and swollen and painful joints. Affected individuals may also have difficulty breathing, an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly), and developmental delay.  Researchers have described seven types of Farber lipogranulomatosis based on their characteristic features.  Type 1 is the most common, or classical, form of this condition and is associated with the classic signs of voice, skin, and joint problems that begin a few months after birth. Developmental delay and lung disease also commonly occur. Infants born with type 1 Farber lipogranulomatosis usually survive only into early childhood.  Types 2 and 3 generally have less severe signs and symptoms than the other types. Affected individuals have the three classic signs and usually do not have developmental delay. Children with these types of Farber lipogranulomatosis typically live into mid- to late childhood.  Types 4 and 5 are associated with severe neurological problems. Type 4 usually causes life-threatening health problems beginning in infancy due to massive lipid deposits in the liver, spleen, lungs, and immune system tissues. Children with this type typically do not survive past their first year of life. Type 5 is characterized by progressive decline in brain and spinal cord (central nervous system) function, which causes paralysis of the arms and legs (quadriplegia), seizures, loss of speech, involuntary muscle jerks (myoclonus), and developmental delay. Children with type 5 Farber lipogranulomatosis survive into early childhood.  Types 6 and 7 are very rare, and affected individuals have other associated disorders in addition to Farber lipogranulomatosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to prevent Acanthamoeba - Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE); Keratitis ?
Answer: Topics
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: Is Hashimoto's syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Hashimoto's syndrome inherited? The inheritance pattern of Hashimoto's syndrome is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. However, the condition can cluster in families, and having a close relative with Hashimoto's syndrome or another autoimmune disorder likely increases a person's risk of developing the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) central core disease ?
Answer: Central core disease is a disorder that affects muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles). This condition causes muscle weakness that ranges from almost unnoticeable to very severe.  Most people with central core disease experience persistent, mild muscle weakness that does not worsen with time. This weakness affects the muscles near the center of the body (proximal muscles), particularly muscles in the upper legs and hips. Muscle weakness causes affected infants to appear "floppy" and can delay the development of motor skills such as sitting, standing, and walking. In severe cases, affected infants experience profoundly weak muscle tone (hypotonia) and serious or life-threatening breathing problems. Central core disease is also associated with skeletal abnormalities such as abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis), hip dislocation, and joint deformities called contractures that restrict the movement of certain joints.  Many people with central core disease also have an increased risk of developing a severe reaction to certain drugs used during surgery and other invasive procedures. This reaction is called malignant hyperthermia. Malignant hyperthermia occurs in response to some anesthetic gases, which are used to block the sensation of pain, and with a particular type of muscle relaxant. If given these drugs, people at risk for malignant hyperthermia may experience muscle rigidity, breakdown of muscle fibers (rhabdomyolysis), a high fever, increased acid levels in the blood and other tissues (acidosis), and a rapid heart rate. The complications of malignant hyperthermia can be life-threatening unless they are treated promptly.  Central core disease gets its name from disorganized areas called cores, which are found in the center of muscle fibers in many affected individuals. These abnormal regions can only be seen under a microscope. Although the presence of cores can help doctors diagnose central core disease, it is unclear how they are related to muscle weakness and the other features of this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome type 1 ?
Answer: Can dislocated lenses in patients with Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome be treated? We were unable to find information in the medical literature regarding the management of dislocated lenses in patients with Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome. We encourage you to speak with a healthcare provider experienced in the management of rare eye disorders. The American Association of Eye and Ear Centers of Excellence provides a list of member clinics and the Eye Research Network provides a list of eye research facilities that may be helpful as you search for clinics. Click on the links to view the lists. Please note that the lists are not exhaustive of all specialty and research eye clinics within the United States or abroad.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison's Disease ?
Answer: Adrenal insufficiency is an endocrine, or hormonal, disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones. The adrenal glands are located just above the kidneys.
                
Adrenal insufficiency can be primary or secondary. Addisons disease, the common term for primary adrenal insufficiency, occurs when the adrenal glands are damaged and cannot produce enough of the adrenal hormone cortisol. The adrenal hormone aldosterone may also be lacking. Addisons disease affects 110 to 144 of every 1 million people in developed countries.1
                
Secondary adrenal insufficiency occurs when the pituitary glanda pea-sized gland at the base of the brainfails to produce enough adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), a hormone that stimulates the adrenal glands to produce the hormone cortisol. If ACTH output is too low, cortisol production drops. Eventually, the adrenal glands can shrink due to lack of ACTH stimulation. Secondary adrenal insufficiency is much more common than Addisons disease.
                

                
1
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Abdominal Adhesions ?
Answer: In most cases, abdominal adhesions do not cause symptoms. When symptoms are present, chronic abdominal pain is the most common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Endometrial Cancer ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Endometrial cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the endometrium.     - In the United States, endometrial cancer is the most common invasive cancer of the female reproductive system.    -  Health history and certain medicines can affect the risk of developing endometrial cancer.
                
                
                    Endometrial cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the endometrium.
                    The endometrium is the innermost lining of the uterus. The uterus is a hollow, muscular organ in a woman's pelvis. The uterus is where a fetus grows. In most nonpregnant women, the uterus is about 3 inches long.     Cancer of the endometrium is different from cancer of the muscle of the uterus, which is called uterine sarcoma. See the PDQ summary on Uterine Sarcoma Treatment for more information.   See the following PDQ summaries for more information about endometrial cancer:         -  Endometrial Cancer Treatment     -  Endometrial Cancer Prevention
                
                
                    In the United States, endometrial cancer is the most common invasive cancer of the female reproductive system.
                    Endometrial cancer is diagnosed most often in postmenopausal women at an average age of 60 years.   From 2004 to 2013, the number of new cases of endometrial cancer increased slightly in white and black women. From 2005 to 2014, the number of deaths from endometrial cancer increased slightly in white and black women. When endometrial cancer is diagnosed in black women, it is usually more advanced and less likely to be cured.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 5 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 5? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 5. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Decreased osteoclast count - Hydrocephalus - Osteopetrosis - Stillbirth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) geleophysic dysplasia ?
Answer: Geleophysic dysplasia is an inherited condition that affects many parts of the body. It is characterized by abnormalities involving the bones, joints, heart, and skin.  People with geleophysic dysplasia have short stature with very short hands and feet. Most also develop thickened skin and joint deformities called contractures, both of which significantly limit mobility. Affected individuals usually have a limited range of motion in their fingers, toes, wrists, and elbows. Additionally, contractures in the legs and hips cause many affected people to walk on their toes.  The name of this condition, which comes from the Greek words for happy ("gelios") and nature ("physis"), is derived from the good-natured facial appearance seen in most affected individuals. The distinctive facial features associated with this condition include a round face with full cheeks, a small nose with upturned nostrils, a broad nasal bridge, a thin upper lip, upturned corners of the mouth, and a flat area between the upper lip and the nose (philtrum).  Geleophysic dysplasia is also characterized by heart (cardiac) problems, particularly abnormalities of the cardiac valves. These valves normally control the flow of blood through the heart. In people with geleophysic dysplasia, the cardiac valves thicken, which impedes blood flow and increases blood pressure in the heart. Other heart problems have also been reported in people with geleophysic dysplasia; these include a narrowing of the artery from the heart to the lungs (pulmonary stenosis) and a hole between the two upper chambers of the heart (atrial septal defect).  Other features of geleophysic dysplasia can include an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly) and recurrent respiratory and ear infections. In severe cases, a narrowing of the windpipe (tracheal stenosis) can cause serious breathing problems. As a result of heart and respiratory abnormalities, geleophysic dysplasia is often life-threatening in childhood. However, some affected people have lived into adulthood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens ?
Answer: This condition is responsible for 1 percent to 2 percent of all infertility in men.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Naegeli syndrome ?
Answer: Naegeli syndrome belongs to a group of disorders known as ectodermal dysplasias. This condition is characterized by absent fingerprints, thickening of the palms and soles (palmoplantar keratoderma), decreased sweating (hypohidrosis), heat intolerance, patches of darker (hyperpigmented) skin, brittle nails, abnormally colored teeth, and early tooth loss. Naegeli syndrome is caused by mutations in the KRT14 gene and inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment is based on an individual's symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Norrie disease ?
Answer: Norrie disease is an inherited eye disorder that leads to blindness in male infants at birth or soon after birth. Additional symptoms may occur in some cases, although this varies even among individuals in the same family. Most affected individuals develop sensorineural hearing loss and many exhibit cognitive abnormalities such as developmental delays, behavioral issues, or psychotic-like features. Norrie disease is caused by mutations in the NDP gene. It is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. Treatment is directed toward the specific symptoms present in each individual. The coordinated efforts of a team of specialists, including pediatricians, ophthalmologists, and audiologists may be needed. Early intervention and special education services are important to ensure that children with Norrie disease reach their full potential.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis ?
Answer: Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis (CIPA) has two characteristic features: the inability to feel pain and temperature, and decreased or absent sweating (anhidrosis). This condition is also known as hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IV. The signs and symptoms of CIPA appear early, usually at birth or during infancy, but with careful medical attention, affected individuals can live into adulthood.  An inability to feel pain and temperature often leads to repeated severe injuries. Unintentional self-injury is common in people with CIPA, typically by biting the tongue, lips, or fingers, which may lead to spontaneous amputation of the affected area. In addition, people with CIPA heal slowly from skin and bone injuries. Repeated trauma can lead to chronic bone infections (osteomyelitis) or a condition called Charcot joints, in which the bones and tissue surrounding joints are destroyed.  Normally, sweating helps cool the body temperature. However, in people with CIPA, anhidrosis often causes recurrent, extremely high fevers (hyperpyrexia) and seizures brought on by high temperature (febrile seizures).  In addition to the characteristic features, there are other signs and symptoms of CIPA. Many affected individuals have thick, leathery skin (lichenification) on the palms of their hands or misshapen fingernails or toenails. They can also have patches on their scalp where hair does not grow (hypotrichosis). About half of people with CIPA show signs of hyperactivity or emotional instability, and many affected individuals have intellectual disability. Some people with CIPA have weak muscle tone (hypotonia) when they are young, but muscle strength and tone become more normal as they get older.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for atelosteogenesis type 3 ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of atelosteogenesis type 3:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: FLNB-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Atelosteogenesis type 3   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Pseudotumor Cerebri ?
Answer: Obesity, other treatable diseases, and some medications can cause raised intracranial pressure and symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri. A thorough medical history and physical examination is needed to evaluate these factors. If a diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri is confirmed, close, repeated ophthalmologic exams are required to monitor any changes in vision. Drugs may be used to reduce fluid buildup and to relieve pressure. Weight loss through dieting or weight loss surgery and cessation of certain drugs (including oral contraceptives, tetracycline, and a variety of steroids) may lead to improvement. Surgery may be needed to remove pressure on the optic nerve. Therapeutic shunting, which involves surgically inserting a tube to drain CSF from the lower spine into the abdominal cavity, may be needed to remove excess CSF and relieve CSF pressure.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Alpha-mannosidosis type 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Alpha-mannosidosis type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Alpha-mannosidosis type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the tongue 90% Cataract 90% Coarse facial features 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Craniofacial hyperostosis 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Hearing impairment 90% Hepatomegaly 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Splenomegaly 90% Type II diabetes mellitus 90% Abnormality of the helix 50% Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Abnormality of the palate 50% Bowing of the long bones 50% Dental malocclusion 50% Gingival overgrowth 50% Hernia of the abdominal wall 50% Hypertelorism 50% Kyphosis 50% Macrotia 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Otitis media 50% Prominent supraorbital ridges 50% Scoliosis 50% Short neck 50% Arthritis 7.5% Aseptic necrosis 7.5% Hallucinations 7.5% Increased intracranial pressure 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Mandibular prognathia 7.5% Recurrent respiratory infections 7.5% Synostosis of joints 7.5% Abnormality of the rib cage - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Broad forehead - Cerebellar atrophy - Decreased antibody level in blood - Depressed nasal ridge - Dysarthria - Dysostosis multiplex - Epicanthus - Femoral bowing - Flat occiput - Frontal bossing - Gait ataxia - Growth delay - Hyperreflexia - Hypertrichosis - Hypoplasia of midface - Impaired smooth pursuit - Increased vertebral height - Inguinal hernia - Intellectual disability - Limb ataxia - Low anterior hairline - Macroglossia - Malar flattening - Nystagmus - Pectus carinatum - Progressive retinal degeneration - Recurrent bacterial infections - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Spasticity - Spinocerebellar tract disease in lower limbs - Spondylolisthesis - Thick eyebrow - Thickened calvaria - Thoracolumbar kyphosis - Vacuolated lymphocytes - Widely spaced teeth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Walker-Warburg syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Hypertrichosis lanuginosa congenita ?
Answer: Hypertrichosis lanuginosa congenita is a congenital (present from birth) skin disease characterized by excessive lanugo (very fine, soft, unpigmented) hair covering the entire body, with the exception of the palms, soles, and mucous membranes. The hair can grow to be 3 to 5 cm in length. This condition appears to follow an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Heart Failure ?
Answer: Common Symptoms The most common symptoms of heart failure include shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, feeling tired, and swelling. Swelling usually occurs in the ankles, feet, legs, and sometimes in the abdomen. Swelling is caused by fluid buildup in the body. The fluid buildup can lead to weight gain as well as a cough. The cough can be worse at night and when lying down. When symptoms first begin, you might feel tired or short of breath after routine physical activities, such as climbing stairs. As heart failure progresses, the symptoms get worse. You may feel tired or short of breath after performing simple activities, like getting dressed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the symptoms of Childhood Astrocytomas ?
Answer: The signs and symptoms of astrocytomas are not the same in every child. Signs and symptoms depend on the following:          - Where the tumor forms in the brain or spinal cord.    - The size of the tumor.    - How fast the tumor grows.    - The child's age and development.        Some tumors do not cause signs or symptoms. Signs and symptoms may be caused by childhood astrocytomas or by other conditions. Check with your child's doctor if your child has any of the following:         - Morning headache or headache that goes away after vomiting.    -  Nausea and vomiting.    - Vision, hearing, and speech problems.     - Loss of balance and trouble walking.     - Worsening handwriting or slow speech.    - Weakness or change in feeling on one side of the body.    - Unusual sleepiness.    - More or less energy than usual.    - Change in personality or behavior.    -  Seizures.    - Weight loss or weight gain for no known reason.     - Increase in the size of the head (in infants).
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ?
Answer: Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) is a disorder in which skeletal muscle and connective tissue, such as tendons and ligaments, are gradually replaced by bone (ossified). This condition leads to bone formation outside the skeleton (extra-skeletal or heterotopic bone) that restricts movement. This process generally becomes noticeable in early childhood, starting with the neck and shoulders and moving down the body and into the limbs. People with FOP are born with abnormal big toes (hallux valgus) which can be helpful in making the diagnosis. Trauma, such as a fall or invasive medical procedure, or a viral illness may trigger episodes of muscle swelling and inflammation (myositis). These flareups lasts for several days to months and often result in permanent bone growth in the injured area. FOP is almost always caused by a mutation at the same place in the ACVR1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This condition occurs in about 1 in 1,600,000 newborns and about 800 people worldwide are known to have FOP.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Huntington disease ?
Answer: Huntington disease affects an estimated 3 to 7 per 100,000 people of European ancestry. The disorder appears to be less common in some other populations, including people of Japanese, Chinese, and African descent.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Polycystic liver disease ?
Answer: Polycystic liver disease is an inherited condition characterized by many cysts of various sizes scattered throughout the liver. Abdominal discomfort from swelling of the liver may occur; however, most affected individuals do not have any symptoms. In some cases, polycystic liver disease appears to occur randomly, with no apparent cause. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Sometimes, cysts are found in the liver in association with the presence of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (AD-PKD). In fact, about half of the people who have AD-PKD experience liver cysts. However, kidney cysts are uncommon in those affected by polycystic liver disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Hemifacial microsomia inherited ?
Answer: Is hemifacial microsomia inherited? Hemifacial microsomia most often occurs in a single individual in a family and is not inherited. If the condition is caused by a chromosomal abnormality, it may be inherited from one affected parent or it may result from a new abnormality in the chromosome and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a very small number of cases, hemifacial microsomia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In rare cases, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. The gene or genes involved in hemifacial microsomia are unknown. In some affected families, people seem to inherit an increased risk of developing hemifacial microsomia, not the condition itself. In these cases, some combination of genetic changes and environmental factors may be involved.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Hashimoto's syndrome ?
Answer: Hashimotos syndrome is a form of chronic inflammation that can damage the thyroid, reducing its ability to produce hormones (hypothyroidism). An early sign of the condition may be enlargement of the thyroid (called a goiter), which can potentially interfere with breathing or swallowing. Other signs and symptoms may include tiredness, weight gain, thin and dry hair, joint or muscle pain, constipation, cold intolerance, and/or a slowed heart rate. Affected women may have irregular menstrual periods or difficulty becoming pregnant. Hashimotos syndrome is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. It is more common in women than in men, and it usually appears in mid-adulthood. The exact cause is unknown but it is thought to result from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Treatment is not always needed, but may include taking synthetic thyroid hormone.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Lujan syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Lujan syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Lujan syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the palate 90% Abnormality of the voice 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Disproportionate tall stature 90% High forehead 90% Macrocephaly 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Scoliosis 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 50% Arachnodactyly 50% Atria septal defect 50% Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 50% Hypoplasia of the zygomatic bone 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Macroorchidism 50% Narrow face 50% Pectus excavatum 50% Prominent nasal bridge 50% Short philtrum 50% Abnormality of calvarial morphology 7.5% Abnormality of the pinna 7.5% Abnormality of the teeth 7.5% Brachydactyly syndrome 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Hallucinations 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Abnormality of the genitourinary system - Abnormality of the rib cage - Abnormally folded helix - Agenesis of corpus callosum - Aggressive behavior - Ascending aortic aneurysm - Autism - Broad thumb - Deep philtrum - Dental crowding - Emotional lability - Flexion contracture - Frontal bossing - Generalized hypotonia - High palate - Hyperactivity - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Impaired social interactions - Intellectual disability - Joint laxity - Long face - Long nose - Low frustration tolerance - Low-set ears - Narrow nasal bridge - Nasal speech - Obsessive-compulsive behavior - Open mouth - Prominent forehead - Psychosis - Ventricular septal defect - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is ataxia neuropathy spectrum inherited ?
Answer: Ataxia neuropathy spectrum can have different inheritance patterns depending on the associated gene.  Mutations in the POLG gene cause a form of the condition that is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Mutations in the C10orf2 gene cause a form of the condition that is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) celiac disease ?
Answer: Celiac disease is a condition in which the immune system is abnormally sensitive to gluten, a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disorder; autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's own tissues and organs. Without a strict, lifelong gluten-free diet, inflammation resulting from immune system overactivity may cause a wide variety of signs and symptoms involving many parts of the body.  Celiac disease can develop at any age after an individual starts eating foods containing gluten. The classic symptoms of the condition result from inflammation affecting the gastrointestinal tract. This inflammation damages the villi, which are small, finger-like projections that line the small intestine and provide a greatly increased surface area to absorb nutrients. In celiac disease, the villi become shortened and eventually flatten out. Intestinal damage causes diarrhea and poor absorption of nutrients, which may lead to weight loss. Abdominal pain, swelling (distention), and food intolerances are common in celiac disease. Inflammation associated with celiac disease may lead to an increased risk of developing certain gastrointestinal cancers such as cancers of the small intestine or esophagus.  Inflammation and poor nutrient absorption may lead to problems affecting many other organs and systems of the body in affected individuals. These health problems may include iron deficiency that results in a low number of red blood cells (anemia), vitamin deficiencies, low bone mineral density (osteoporosis), itchy skin rashes (dermatitis herpetiformis), defects in the enamel of the teeth, chronic fatigue, joint pain, poor growth, delayed puberty, infertility, or repeated miscarriages. Neurological problems have also been associated with celiac disease; these include migraine headaches, depression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and recurrent seizures (epilepsy). Many people with celiac disease have one or more of these varied health problems but do not have gastrointestinal symptoms. This form of the condition is called nonclassic celiac disease. Researchers now believe that nonclassic celiac disease is actually more common than the classic form.  Celiac disease often goes undiagnosed because many of its signs and symptoms are nonspecific, which means they may occur in many disorders. Most people who have one or more of these nonspecific health problems do not have celiac disease. On average, a diagnosis of celiac disease is not made until 6 to 10 years after symptoms begin.  Some people have silent celiac disease, in which they have no symptoms of the disorder. However, people with silent celiac disease do have immune proteins in their blood (antibodies) that are common in celiac disease. They also have inflammatory damage to their small intestine that can be detected with a biopsy.  In a small number of cases, celiac disease does not improve with a gluten-free diet and progresses to a condition called refractory sprue. Refractory sprue is characterized by chronic inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, poor absorption of nutrients, and an increased risk of developing a type of cancer of the immune cells called T-cell lymphoma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Arrhythmia ?
Answer: Espaol
                
An arrhythmia (ah-RITH-me-ah) is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat too fast, too slow, or with an irregular rhythm.
                
A heartbeat that is too fast is called tachycardia (TAK-ih-KAR-de-ah). A heartbeat that is too slow is called bradycardia (bray-de-KAR-de-ah).
                
Most arrhythmias are harmless, but some can be serious or even life threatening. During an arrhythmia, the heart may not be able to pump enough blood to the body. Lack of blood flow can damage the brain, heart, and other organs.
                
Understanding the Heart's Electrical System
                
To understand arrhythmias, it helps to understand the heart's internal electrical system. The heart's electrical system controls the rate and rhythm of the heartbeat.
                
With each heartbeat, an electrical signal spreads from the top of the heart to the bottom. As the signal travels, it causes the heart to contract and pump blood.
                
Each electrical signal begins in a group of cells called the sinus node or sinoatrial (SA) node. The SA node is located in the heart's upper right chamber, the right atrium (AY-tree-um). In a healthy adult heart at rest, the SA node fires off an electrical signal to begin a new heartbeat 60 to 100 times a minute.
                
From the SA node, the electrical signal travels through special pathways in the right and left atria. This causes the atria to contract and pump blood into the heart's two lower chambers, the ventricles (VEN-trih-kuls).
                
The electrical signal then moves down to a group of cells called the atrioventricular (AV) node, located between the atria and the ventricles. Here, the signal slows down just a little, allowing the ventricles time to finish filling with blood.
                
The electrical signal then leaves the AV node and travels along a pathway called the bundle of His. This pathway divides into a right bundle branch and a left bundle branch. The signal goes down these branches to the ventricles, causing them to contract and pump blood to the lungs and the rest of the body.
                
The ventricles then relax, and the heartbeat process starts all over again in the SA node. (For more information about the heart's electrical system, including detailed animations, go to the Health Topics How the Heart Works article.)
                
A problem with any part of this process can cause an arrhythmia. For example, in atrial fibrillation (A-tre-al fi-bri-LA-shun), a common type of arrhythmia, electrical signals travel through the atria in a fast and disorganized way. This causes the atria to quiver instead of contract.
                
Outlook
                
There are many types of arrhythmia. Most arrhythmias are harmless, but some are not. The outlook for a person who has an arrhythmia depends on the type and severity of the arrhythmia.
                
Even serious arrhythmias often can be successfully treated. Most people who have arrhythmias are able to live normal, healthy lives.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: Who is at risk for Diabetes, Heart Disease, and Stroke? ?
Answer: Diabetes itself is a risk factor for heart disease and stroke. Also, many people with diabetes have other conditions that increase their chance of developing heart disease and stroke. These conditions are called risk factors. One risk factor for heart disease and stroke is having a family history of heart disease. If one or more members of your family had a heart attack at an early age (before age 55 for men or 65 for women), you may be at increased risk.
                
You can't change whether heart disease runs in your family, but you can take steps to control the other risk factors for heart disease listed here:
                
- Having central obesity. Central obesity means carrying extra weight around the waist, as opposed to the hips. A waist measurement of more than 40 inches for men and more than 35 inches for women means you have central obesity. Your risk of heart disease is higher because abdominal fat can increase the production of LDL (bad) cholesterol, the type of blood fat that can be deposited on the inside of blood vessel walls.  - Having abnormal blood fat (cholesterol) levels.      - LDL cholesterol can build up inside your blood vessels, leading to narrowing and hardening of your arteriesthe blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Arteries can then become blocked. Therefore, high levels of LDL cholesterol raise your risk of getting heart disease.    - Triglycerides are another type of blood fat that can raise your risk of heart disease when the levels are high.    - HDL (good) cholesterol removes deposits from inside your blood vessels and takes them to the liver for removal. Low levels of HDL cholesterol increase your risk for heart disease.    - Having high blood pressure. If you have high blood pressure, also called hypertension, your heart must work harder to pump blood. High blood pressure can strain the heart, damage blood vessels, and increase your risk of heart attack, stroke, eye problems, and kidney problems.  - Smoking. Smoking doubles your risk of getting heart disease. Stopping smoking is especially important for people with diabetes because both smoking and diabetes narrow blood vessels. Smoking also increases the risk of other long-term complications, such as eye problems. In addition, smoking can damage the blood vessels in your legs and increase the risk of amputation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Pulmonary Hypertension ?
Answer: Pulmonary hypertension (PULL-mun-ary HI-per-TEN-shun), or PH, is increased pressure in the pulmonary arteries. These arteries carry blood from your heart to your lungs to pick up oxygen.
                
PH causes symptoms such as shortness of breath during routine activity (for example, climbing two flights of stairs), tiredness, chest pain, and a racing heartbeat. As the condition worsens, its symptoms may limit all physical activity.
                
Overview
                
To understand PH, it helps to understand how your heart and lungs work. Your heart has two sides, separated by an inner wall called the septum.
                
Each side of your heart has an upper and lower chamber. The lower right chamber of your heart, the right ventricle (VEN-trih-kul), pumps blood to your pulmonary arteries. The blood then travels to your lungs, where it picks up oxygen.
                
The upper left chamber of your heart, the left atrium (AY-tree-um), receives the oxygen-rich blood from your lungs. The blood is then pumped into the lower left chamber of your heart, the left ventricle. From the left ventricle, the blood is pumped to the rest of your body through an artery called the aorta.
                
For more information about the heart and lungs, go to the Diseases and Conditions Index How the Heart Works and How the Lungs Work articles.
                
PH begins with inflammation and changes in the cells that line your pulmonary arteries. Other factors also can affect the pulmonary arteries and cause PH. For example, the condition may develop if:
                
The walls of the arteries tighten.
                
The walls of the arteries are stiff at birth or become stiff from an overgrowth of cells.
                
Blood clots form in the arteries.
                
These changes make it hard for your heart to push blood through your pulmonary arteries and into your lungs. As a result, the pressure in your arteries rises. Also, because your heart is working harder than normal, your right ventricle becomes strained and weak.
                
Your heart may become so weak that it can't pump enough blood to your lungs. This causes heart failure. Heart failure is the most common cause of death in people who have PH.
                
PH is divided into five groups based on its causes. In all groups, the average pressure in the pulmonary arteries is higher than 25 mmHg at rest or 30 mmHg during physical activity. The pressure in normal pulmonary arteries is 820 mmHg at rest. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
Other diseases or conditions, such as heart and lung diseases or blood clots, usually cause PH. Some people inherit the condition (that is, their parents pass the genes for PH on to them). In some cases, the cause isn't known.
                
Outlook
                
PH has no cure. However, research for new treatments is ongoing. The earlier PH is treated, the easier it is to control.
                
Treatments include medicines, procedures, and other therapies. These treatments can relieve PH symptoms and slow the progress of the disease. Lifestyle changes also can help control symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What causes Mosaic trisomy 14 ?
Answer: What causes mosaic trisomy 14? Individuals with mosaic trisomy 14 have a duplication of chromosome 14 material in some of their cells, while other cells have a normal chromosomal makeup. The additional chromosomal material is responsible for the features that are characteristic of the condition. Most cases of mosaic trisomy 14 appear to result from random errors in the separation of chromosomes (nondisjunction) -- either during the division of the egg or sperm in one of the parents, or during cell division after fertilization. There have been some reports in which it may have occurred due to other phenomenon, such as uniparental disomy or the formation of an isochromosome. Uniparental disomy is when an affected individual inherits both copies of a chromosomal pair from one parent, rather than one copy from each parent. An isochromosome is an abnormal chromosome with identical arms on each side of the centromere. Unique has a leaflet on their Web site that contains additional descriptions and illustrations of how mosaic trisomy 14 may occur. Click here to view the leaflet.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Currarino triad ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Currarino triad? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Currarino triad. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the sacrum 90% Presacral teratoma 90% Hemisacrum (S2-S5) 75% Bifid sacrum 22% Arteriovenous malformation 7.5% Bifid scrotum 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Lower limb asymmetry 7.5% Male pseudohermaphroditism 7.5% Abdominal distention - Anal atresia - Anal fistula - Anal stenosis - Anterior sacral meningocele - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bicornuate uterus - Chronic constipation - Gastrointestinal obstruction - Horseshoe kidney - Incomplete penetrance - Neurogenic bladder - Perianal abscess - Rectovaginal fistula - Recurrent urinary tract infections - Septate vagina - Tethered cord - Urinary incontinence - Vesicoureteral reflux - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to prevent Hemochromatosis ?
Answer: You can't prevent primary, or inherited, hemochromatosis. However, not everyone who inherits hemochromatosis genes develops symptoms or complications of the disease. In those who do, treatments can keep the disease from getting worse.
                
Treatments include therapeutic phlebotomy, iron chelation therapy, dietary changes, and other treatments. For more information, go to "How Is Hemochromatosis Treated?"
                
People who have hemochromatosis (or a family history of it) and are planning to have children may want to consider genetic testing and counseling. Testing will help show whether one or both parents have faulty HFE genes. A genetic counselor also can help figure out the likelihood of the parents passing the faulty genes on to their children.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What causes Abdominal Adhesions ?
Answer: Abdominal surgery is the most frequent cause of abdominal adhesions. Surgery-related causes include
                
- cuts involving internal organs   - handling of internal organs  - drying out of internal organs and tissues  - contact of internal tissues with foreign materials, such as gauze, surgical gloves, and stitches  - blood or blood clots that were not rinsed away during surgery
                
Abdominal adhesions can also result from inflammation not related to surgery, including
                
- appendix rupture  - radiation treatment  - gynecological infections  - abdominal infections
                
Rarely, abdominal adhesions form without apparent cause.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for combined pituitary hormone deficiency ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of combined pituitary hormone deficiency:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: PROP1-Related Combined Pituitary Hormone Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pituitary hormone deficiency, combined 6  - Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children (UK): Growth Hormone Deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: ACTH  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: FSH  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Growth Hormone Deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Prolactin  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: TSH Test   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Fatal familial insomnia ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for fatal familial insomnia? Yes, genetic testing is available for PRNP, the gene known to cause fatal familial insomnia (FFI). Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal testing are possible if the disease-causing mutation in the family is known. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) is a centralized online resource for information about genetic tests. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional. How is fatal familial insomnia diagnosed? A diagnosis of genetic prion disease is typically made based on a combination of the following: Various, adult-onset neurologic signs and symptoms Neuropathologic findings (diagnosis made by examining cells and tissues of the brain under a microscope) A family history consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance PRNP disease-causing mutation The PRNP gene is the only gene in which changes (mutations) are known to cause genetic prion diseases, including fatal familial insomnia. Finding a mutation in this gene is necessary to confirm a diagnosis in a person with symptoms. Testing of the PRNP gene may not detect all disease-causing mutations, so if a mutation is not found, a person may still have the disease. Other studies such as EEG, brain imaging, or examining cerebrospinal fluid may be helpful in supporting a diagnosis, but none of these can diagnose a genetic prion disease on its own.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Parkinson disease inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Parkinson disease occur in people with no apparent family history of the disorder. These sporadic cases may not be inherited, or they may have an inheritance pattern that is unknown.  Among familial cases of Parkinson disease, the inheritance pattern differs depending on the gene that is altered. If the LRRK2 or SNCA gene is involved, the disorder is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  If the PARK2, PARK7, or PINK1 gene is involved, Parkinson disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This type of inheritance means that two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. Most often, the parents of an individual with autosomal recessive Parkinson disease each carry one copy of the altered gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.  When genetic alterations modify the risk of developing Parkinson disease, the inheritance pattern is usually unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by 5q minus syndrome ?
Answer: MDS affects nearly 1 in 20,000 people in the United States. It is thought that 5q- syndrome accounts for 15 percent of MDS cases. Unlike other forms of MDS, which occur more frequently in men than women, 5q- syndrome is more than twice as common in women.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is celiac disease inherited ?
Answer: Celiac disease tends to cluster in families. Parents, siblings, or children (first-degree relatives) of people with celiac disease have between a 4 and 15 percent chance of developing the disorder. However, the inheritance pattern is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Chromosome 8q24.3 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Chromosome 8q24.3 deletion syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Chromosome 8q24.3 deletion syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the cardiac septa - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebral atrophy - Clinodactyly - Coloboma - Congenital onset - Feeding difficulties - Hemivertebrae - Hip dislocation - Long philtrum - Microcephaly - Narrow forehead - Phenotypic variability - Renal agenesis - Renal cyst - Renal hypoplasia - Scoliosis - Short 5th finger - Short neck - Short nose - Short stature - Vertebral fusion - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Carpal Tunnel Syndrome ?
Answer: Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) occurs when the median nerve, which runs from the forearm into the palm of the hand, becomes pressed or squeezed at the wrist. The carpal tunnel is a narrow, rigid passageway of ligament and bones at the base of the hand that houses the median nerve and the tendons that bend the fingers. The median nerve provides feeling to the palm side of the thumb and to most of the fingers. Symptoms usually start gradually, with numbness, tingling, weakness, and sometimes pain in the hand and wrist. People might have difficulty with tasks such as driving or reading a book. Decreased hand strength may make it difficult to grasp small objects or perform other manual tasks. In some cases no direct cause of the syndrome can be identified. Contributing factors include trauma or injury to the wrist that causes swelling, thyroid disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and fluid retention during pregnancy. Women are three times more likely than men to develop carpal tunnel syndrome. The disorder usually occurs only in adults.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Do you have information about Heart Surgery
Answer: Summary : Heart surgery can correct problems with the heart if other treatments haven't worked or can't be used. The most common type of heart surgery for adults is coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). During CABG, a healthy artery or vein from the body is connected, or grafted, to a blocked coronary (heart) artery.    Doctors also use heart surgery to       - Repair or replace heart valves, which control blood flow through the heart    - Repair abnormal or damaged structures in the heart    - Implant medical devices that help control the heartbeat or support heart function and blood flow    - Replace a damaged heart with a healthy heart from a donor    - Treat heart failure and coronary heart disease    -  Control abnormal heart rhythms       Heart surgery has risks, even though its results often are excellent. Risks include bleeding, infection, irregular heartbeats, and stroke. The risk is higher if you are older or a woman. The risk is also higher if you have other diseases or conditions, such as diabetes, kidney disease, lung disease, or peripheral arterial disease.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How to diagnose Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?
Answer: Once the infection has cleared, more tests may be recommended to check for abnormalities in the urinary tract. Repeated infections in an abnormal urinary tract may cause kidney damage. The kinds of tests ordered will depend on the child and the type of urinary infection. Because no single test can tell everything about the urinary tract that might be important, more than one of the tests listed below may be needed.
                
- Kidney and bladder ultrasound. Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaging; anesthesia is not needed. The images can show certain abnormalities in the kidneys and bladder. However, this test cannot reveal all important urinary abnormalities or measure how well the kidneys work.  - Voiding cystourethrogram. This test is an x-ray image of the bladder and urethra taken while the bladder is full and during urination, also called voiding. The childs bladder and urethra are filled with a special dye, called contrast medium, to make the structures clearly visible on the x-ray images. The x-ray machine captures images of the contrast medium while the bladder is full and when the child urinates. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by an x-ray technician supervised by a radiologist, who then interprets the images. Anesthesia is not needed, but sedation may be used for some children. This test can show abnormalities of the inside of the urethra and bladder. The test can also determine whether the flow of urine is normal when the bladder empties.  - Computerized tomography (CT) scan. CT scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create three-dimensional (3-D) images. A CT scan may include the injection of contrast medium. CT scans require the child to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist; anesthesia is not needed. CT scans can provide clearer, more detailed images to help the health care provider understand the problem.  - Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI machines use radio waves and magnets to produce detailed pictures of the bodys internal organs and soft tissues without using x rays. An MRI may include the injection of contrast medium. With most MRI machines, the child lies on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device that may be open ended or closed at one end; some newer machines are designed to allow the child to lie in a more open space. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist; anesthesia is not needed, though light sedation may be used for children with a fear of confined spaces. Like CT scans, MRIs can provide clearer, more detailed images.  - Radionuclide scan. A radionuclide scan is an imaging technique that relies on the detection of small amounts of radiation after injection of radioactive chemicals. Because the dose of the radioactive chemicals is small, the risk of causing damage to cells is low. Special cameras and computers are used to create images of the radioactive chemicals as they pass through the kidneys. Radionuclide scans are performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist; anesthesia is not needed. Radioactive chemicals injected into the blood can provide information about kidney function. Radioactive chemicals can also be put into the fluids used to fill the bladder and urethra for x ray, MRI, and CT imaging. Radionuclide scans expose a child to about the same amount or less of radiation as a conventional x ray.  - Urodynamics. Urodynamic testing is any procedure that looks at how well the bladder, sphincters, and urethra are storing and releasing urine. Most of these tests are performed in the office of a urologista doctor who specializes in urinary problemsby a urologist, physician assistant, or nurse practitioner. Some procedures may require light sedation to keep the child calm. Most urodynamic tests focus on the bladders ability to hold urine and empty steadily and completely. Urodynamic tests can also show whether the bladder is having abnormal contractions that cause leakage. A health care provider may order these tests if there is evidence that the child has some kind of nerve damage or dysfunctional voidingunhealthy urination habits such as holding in urine when the bladder is full.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) pontocerebellar hypoplasia ?
Answer: Pontocerebellar hypoplasia is a group of related conditions that affect the development of the brain. The term "pontocerebellar" refers to the pons and the cerebellum, which are the brain structures that are most severely affected in many forms of this disorder. The pons is located at the base of the brain in an area called the brainstem, where it transmits signals between the cerebellum and the rest of the brain. The cerebellum, which is located at the back of the brain, normally coordinates movement. The term "hypoplasia" refers to the underdevelopment of these brain regions.  Pontocerebellar hypoplasia also causes impaired growth of other parts of the brain, leading to an unusually small head size (microcephaly). This microcephaly is usually not apparent at birth but becomes noticeable as brain growth continues to be slow in infancy and early childhood.  Researchers have described at least ten types of pontocerebellar hypoplasia. All forms of this condition are characterized by impaired brain development, delayed development overall, problems with movement, and intellectual disability. The brain abnormalities are usually present at birth, and in some cases they can be detected before birth. Many children with pontocerebellar hypoplasia live only into infancy or childhood, although some affected individuals have lived into adulthood.  The two major forms of pontocerebellar hypoplasia are designated as type 1 (PCH1) and type 2 (PCH2). In addition to the brain abnormalities described above, PCH1 causes problems with muscle movement resulting from a loss of specialized nerve cells called motor neurons in the spinal cord, similar to another genetic disorder known as spinal muscular atrophy. Individuals with PCH1 also have very weak muscle tone (hypotonia), joint deformities called contractures, vision impairment, and breathing and feeding problems that are evident from early infancy.  Common features of PCH2 include a lack of voluntary motor skills (such as grasping objects, sitting, or walking), problems with swallowing (dysphagia), and an absence of communication, including speech. Affected children typically develop temporary jitteriness (generalized clonus) in early infancy, abnormal patterns of movement described as chorea or dystonia, and stiffness (spasticity). Many also have impaired vision and seizures.  The other forms of pontocerebellar hypoplasia, designated as type 3 (PCH3) through type 10 (PCH10), appear to be rare and have each been reported in only a small number of individuals. Because the different types have overlapping features, and some are caused by mutations in the same genes, researchers have proposed that the types be considered as a spectrum instead of distinct conditions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Meier-Gorlin syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Leigh's Disease ?
Answer: Leigh's disease is a rare inherited neurometabolic disorder that affects the central nervous system. This progressive disorder begins in infants between the ages of three months and two years.Rarely, it occurs in teenagers and adults.Leigh's disease can be caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA or by deficiencies of an enzyme called pyruvate dehydrogenase. Symptoms of Leigh's disease usually progress rapidly. The earliest signs may be poor sucking ability,and the loss of head control and motor skills.These symptoms may be accompanied by loss of appetite, vomiting, irritability, continuous crying, and seizures. As the disorder progresses, symptoms may also include generalized weakness, lack of muscle tone, and episodes of lactic acidosis, which can lead to impairment of respiratory and kidney function.
                
In Leighs disease, genetic mutations in mitochondrial DNA interfere with the energy sources that run cells in an area of the brain that plays a role in motor movements.The primary function of mitochondria is to convert the energy in glucose and fatty acids into a substance called adenosine triphosphate ( ATP). The energy in ATP drives virtually all of a cell's metabolic functions. Genetic mutations in mitochondrial DNA, therefore, result in a chronic lack of energy in these cells, which in turn affects the central nervous system and causes progressive degeneration of motor functions.
                
There is also a form of Leighs disease (called X-linked Leigh's disease) which is the result of mutations in a gene that produces another group of substances that are important for cell metabolism. This gene is only found on the X chromosome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Takayasu arteritis ?
Answer: How might Takayasu arteritis be treated? The treatment of Takayasu arteritis is focused on controlling both the inflammatory process and hypertension . Treatment options might include: corticosteroids, medications that block the activity of interkeukin-6 (iL-6 receptor inhibitors), medications that impair the activity of B-lymphocyets (B-cell depletion), medications that are toxic to cells (cytotoxic agents), medications that block the activity of tumor necrosis factor (anti-tumor necrosis factor agents), and antihypertensive agents. Lifestyle modification including exercise and diet might additionally be recommended. For additional information on the treatment of Takayasu arteritis, please reference the Medscape article. You may need to register to view the article, but registration is free.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Miller Fisher Syndrome ?
Answer: Treatment for Miller Fisher syndrome is identical to treatment for Guillain-Barr syndrome: intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) or plasmapheresis (a procedure in which antibodies are removed from the blood) and supportive care.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) primary spontaneous pneumothorax ?
Answer: Primary spontaneous pneumothorax is an abnormal accumulation of air in the space between the lungs and the chest cavity (called the pleural space) that can result in the partial or complete collapse of a lung. This type of pneumothorax is described as primary because it occurs in the absence of lung disease such as emphysema. Spontaneous means the pneumothorax was not caused by an injury such as a rib fracture. Primary spontaneous pneumothorax is likely due to the formation of small sacs of air (blebs) in lung tissue that rupture, causing air to leak into the pleural space. Air in the pleural space creates pressure on the lung and can lead to its collapse. A person with this condition may feel chest pain on the side of the collapsed lung and shortness of breath.  Blebs may be present on an individual's lung (or lungs) for a long time before they rupture. Many things can cause a bleb to rupture, such as changes in air pressure or a very sudden deep breath. Often, people who experience a primary spontaneous pneumothorax have no prior sign of illness; the blebs themselves typically do not cause any symptoms and are visible only on medical imaging. Affected individuals may have one bleb to more than thirty blebs. Once a bleb ruptures and causes a pneumothorax, there is an estimated 13 to 60 percent chance that the condition will recur.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Human T-cell leukemia virus type 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of human T-cell leukemia virus, type 2? Human T-cell leukemia virus, type 2 (HTLV-2) generally causes no signs or symptoms. Although HTLV-2 has not been definitively linked with any specific health problems, scientists suspect that some affected people may later develop neurological problems such as:[7046] Sensory neuropathies (conditions that affect the nerves that provide feeling) Gait abnormalities Bladder dysfunction Mild cognitive impairment Motor abnormalities (loss of or limited muscle control or movement, or limited mobility) Erectile dysfunction Although evidence is limited, there may also be a link between HTLV-2 and chronic lung infections (i.e. pneumonia and bronchitis), arthritis, asthma, and dermatitis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Amyloidosis and Kidney Disease ?
Answer: A health care provider treats primary amyloidosis of the kidneys with the following:
                
- medication therapy, including chemotherapy  - a stem cell transplant  - treating other conditions
                
Medication therapy. The goal of medication therapy, including chemotherapy, is to reduce amyloid protein levels in the blood. Many health care providers recommend combination medication therapy such as
                
- melphalan (Alkeran), a type of chemotherapy  - dexamethasone (Decadron), an anti-inflammatory steroid medication
                
These medications can stop the growth of the cells that make amyloid proteins. These medications may cause hair loss and serious side effects, such as nausea, vomiting, and fatigue.
                
Stem cell transplant. A stem cell transplant is a procedure that replaces a patients damaged stem cells with healthy ones. Stem cells are found in the bone marrow and develop into three types of blood cells the body needs. To prepare for a stem cell transplant, the patient receives high doses of chemotherapy. The actual transplant is like a blood transfusion. The transplanted stem cells travel to the bone marrow to make healthy new blood cells. The chemotherapy a patient receives to prepare for the transplant can have serious side effects, so it is important to talk with the health care provider about the risks of this procedure.
                
Read more in What Is a Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant? at www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/bmsct.
                
Treating other conditions. Primary amyloidosis has no cure, so treating some of the side effects and other conditions seen with the disease is essential. Other conditions may include
                
- anemiatreatment may include medications  - depressiontreatment may include talking with a mental health counselor and taking medications  - fatiguetreatment may include changes in diet and activity level  - kidney diseasetreatment may include medications to help maintain kidney function or slow the progression of kidney disease
                
A patient and his or her family should talk with the health care provider about resources for support and treatment options.
                
More information about kidney disease is provided in the NIDDK health topic, niddk-kidney disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Hairy Cell Leukemia ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Hairy cell leukemia is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell).    - Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.    - Gender and age may affect the risk of hairy cell leukemia.     - Signs and symptoms of hairy cell leukemia include infections, tiredness, and pain below the ribs.     - Tests that examine the blood and bone marrow are used to detect (find) and diagnose hairy cell leukemia.    - Certain factors affect treatment options and prognosis (chance of recovery).
                
                
                    Hairy cell leukemia is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell).
                    Hairy cell leukemia is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. This rare type of leukemia gets worse slowly or does not get worse at all. The disease is called hairy cell leukemia because the leukemia cells look "hairy" when viewed under a microscope.
                
                
                    Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.
                    Normally, the bone marrow makes blood stem cells (immature cells) that become mature blood cells over time. A blood stem cell may become a myeloid stem cell or a lymphoid stem cell.    A myeloid stem cell becomes one of three types of mature blood cells:         -  Red blood cells that carry oxygen and other substances to all tissues of the body.    -  White blood cells that fight infection and disease.    -  Platelets that form blood clots to stop bleeding.        A lymphoid stem cell becomes a lymphoblast cell and then into one of three types of lymphocytes (white blood cells):          -  B lymphocytes that make antibodies to help fight infection.    -  T lymphocytes that help B lymphocytes make antibodies to help fight infection.    -  Natural killer cells that attack cancer cells and viruses.         In hairy cell leukemia, too many blood stem cells become lymphocytes. These lymphocytes are abnormal and do not become healthy white blood cells. They are also called leukemia cells. The leukemia cells can build up in the blood and bone marrow so there is less room for healthy white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. This may cause infection, anemia, and easy bleeding. Some of the leukemia cells may collect in the spleen and cause it to swell.   This summary is about hairy cell leukemia. See the following PDQ summaries for information about other types of leukemia:         -  Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Treatment.    -  Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Treatment.    -  Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Treatment.    -  Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia Treatment.    -  Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia/Other Myeloid Malignancies Treatment.    -  Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the genetic changes related to myostatin-related muscle hypertrophy ?
Answer: Mutations in the MSTN gene cause myostatin-related muscle hypertrophy. The MSTN gene provides instructions for making a protein called myostatin, which is active in muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles) both before and after birth. This protein normally restrains muscle growth, ensuring that muscles do not grow too large. Mutations that reduce the production of functional myostatin lead to an overgrowth of muscle tissue.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis acquired ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis acquired? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis acquired. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cyanosis 25% Alveolar proteinosis - Chest pain - Clubbing - Cough - Dyspnea - Hemoptysis - Hypoxemia - Insidious onset - Pneumonia - Polycythemia - Recurrent respiratory infections - Sporadic - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Kidney Failure: Choosing a Treatment That's Right for You ?
Answer: Purpose of Hemodialysis
                
The purpose of hemodialysis is to filter your blood. This type of dialysis uses a machine to remove harmful wastes and extra fluid, as your kidneys did when they were healthy. Hemodialysis helps control blood pressure and balance important minerals, such as potassium, sodium, calcium, and bicarbonate, in your blood. Hemodialysis is not a cure for kidney failure; however, it can help you feel better and live longer.
                
How Hemodialysis Works
                
Before you can begin dialysis, a surgeon will create a vascular access, usually in your arm. A vascular access lets high volumes of blood flow continuously during hemodialysis treatments to filter the largest possible amounts of blood per treatment.
                
Hemodialysis uses a machine to move your blood through a filter, called a dialyzer, outside your body. A pump on the hemodialysis machine draws your blood through a needle into a tube, a few ounces at a time. Your blood then travels through the tube, which takes it to the dialyzer. Inside the dialyzer, your blood flows through thin fibers that filter out wastes and extra fluid. After the dialyzer filters your blood, another tube carries your blood back to your body. You can do hemodialysis at a dialysis center or in your home.
                
Hemodialysis can replace part of your kidney function. You will also need dietary changes, medicines, and limits on water and other liquids you drink and get from food. Your dietary changes, the number of medicines you need, and limits on liquid will depend on where you receive your treatmentsat a dialysis center or at homeand how often you receive treatmentsthree or more times a week.
                
Pros and Cons of Hemodialysis
                
The pros and cons of hemodialysis differ for each person. What may be bad for one person may be good for another. Following is a list of the general pros and cons of dialysis center and home hemodialysis.
                
Dialysis Center Hemodialysis
                
Pros
                
- Dialysis centers are widely available.  - Trained health care providers are with you at all times and help administer the treatment.  - You can get to know other people with kidney failure who also need hemodialysis.  - You dont have to have a trained partner or keep equipment in your home.
                
Cons
                
- The center arranges everyones treatments and allows few exceptions to the schedule.  - You need to travel to the center for treatment.  - This treatment has the strictest diet and limits on liquids because the longer time between treatments means wastes and extra fluid can build up in your body.  - You may have more frequent ups and downs in how you feel from day to day because of the longer time between sessions.  - Feeling better after a treatment may take a few hours.
                
Home Hemodialysis
                
Pros
                
- You can do the treatment at the times you choose; however, you should follow your doctors orders about how many times a week you need treatment.  - You dont have to travel to a dialysis center.  - You gain a sense of control over your treatment.  - You will have fewer ups and downs in how you feel from day to day because of more frequent sessions.  - You can do your treatments at times that will let you work outside the home.  - You will have a more manageable diet and fewer limits on liquids because the shorter time between sessions prevents the buildup of wastes and extra fluid.  - You can take along a hemodialysis machine when traveling.  - You can spend more time with your loved ones because you dont have to go to the dialysis center three times a week.
                
Cons
                
- Not all dialysis centers offer home hemodialysis training and support.  - You and a family member or friend will have to set aside a week or more at the beginning for training.  - Helping with treatments may be stressful for your family or friend.  - You need space for storing the hemodialysis machine and supplies at home.  - You will need to learn to put dialysis needles into your vascular access.  - Medicare and private insurance companies may limit the number of treatments they will pay for when you use home hemodialysis. Few people can afford the costs for additional treatments.
                
Questions to Ask My Doctor
                
You may want to ask your doctor these questions:
                
- Is hemodialysis the best treatment choice for me? Why?   - If Im treated at a dialysis center, can I go to the center of my choice?  - What should I look for in a dialysis center?  - Will my kidney doctor see me at the dialysis center?  - What does hemodialysis feel like?  - How will hemodialysis affect my ____ [blood pressure, diabetes, other conditions]?  - Is home hemodialysis available in my area? What type of training will I need? Who will train my partner and me?  - Will I be able to keep working? Can I have treatments at night? Will I be able to care for my children?  - How much should I exercise?   - Whom do I contact if I have problems?  - Who will be on my health care team? How can the members of my health care team help me?  - If I do home hemodialysis, will my insurance pay for more than three sessions a week?  - With whom can I talk about finances, sex, or family concerns?   - How/where can I talk with other people who have faced this decision?
                
More information about Hemodialysis and Home Hemodialysis is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Hemodialysis and Home Hemodialysis. See also the Kidney Failure Treatment Comparison Chart in this booklet, which compares hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, and transplantation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Michelin tire baby syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Michelin tire baby syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Michelin tire baby syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cutis laxa 90% Edema 90% Sacrococcygeal pilonidal abnormality 90% Thickened skin 90% Cleft palate 50% Irregular hyperpigmentation 50% Abnormality of the musculature 7.5% Abnormality of the scrotum 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Epicanthus 7.5% External ear malformation 7.5% Hypertrichosis 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Lower limb asymmetry 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Microcornea 7.5% Neoplasm of the nervous system 7.5% Retinopathy 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Umbilical hernia 7.5% Abnormality of cardiovascular system morphology - Abnormality of the skin - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Localized neuroblastoma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Bronchial Disorders ?
Answer: The bronchi are two tubes that branch off the trachea, or windpipe. The bronchi carry air to your lungs.    The most common problem with the bronchi is bronchitis, an inflammation of the tubes. Bronchitis can be acute or chronic. Other problems include       - Bronchiectasis, a condition in which damage to the airways causes them to widen and become flabby and scarred    - Exercise-induced bronchospasm, which happens when the airways shrink while you are exercising    - Bronchiolitis, an inflammation of the small airways that branch off from the bronchi    - Bronchopulmonary dysplasia, a condition affecting infants       Treatment of bronchial disorders depends on the cause.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Townes-Brocks syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Townes-Brocks syndrome? Townes-Brocks syndrome is characterized by an obstruction of the anal opening (imperforate anus), abnormally shaped ears, and hand malformations that most often affect the thumbs. Most people with this condition have at least two of these three major features. Other possible signs and symptoms include kidney abnormalities, mild to profound sensorineural and/or conductive hearing loss, heart defects, and genital malformations. These features vary among affected individuals - even among those within the same family. Intellectual disability or learning problems have also been reported in about 10 percent of people with Townes-Brocks syndrome. Visit GeneReviews for more detailed information about the signs and symptoms of Townes-Brocks syndrome.   The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Townes-Brocks syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) External ear malformation 90% Preauricular skin tag 90% Preaxial hand polydactyly 90% Triphalangeal thumb 90% Urogenital fistula 90% Camptodactyly of toe 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th toe 50% Constipation 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Ectopic anus 50% Hearing impairment 50% Microtia 50% Pes planus 50% Preauricular pit 50% Renal insufficiency 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 50% Anal atresia 47% 2-4 finger syndactyly 7.5% Abnormal localization of kidney 7.5% Abnormality of the pulmonary valve 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Abnormality of the tragus 7.5% Abnormality of the vagina 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Arnold-Chiari malformation 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Bifid scrotum 7.5% Blepharophimosis 7.5% Bowel incontinence 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Chorioretinal coloboma 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Cranial nerve paralysis 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Epibulbar dermoid 7.5% Facial asymmetry 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Iris coloboma 7.5% Lower limb asymmetry 7.5% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Preaxial foot polydactyly 7.5% Renal dysplasia 7.5% Renal hypoplasia 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Split foot 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Toe syndactyly 7.5% Ulnar deviation of finger 7.5% Vesicoureteral reflux 7.5% Visual impairment 7.5% Wide mouth 7.5% Duane anomaly 5% 2-3 toe syndactyly - 3-4 finger syndactyly - 3-4 toe syndactyly - Anal stenosis - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the 3rd toe - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bifid uterus - Broad thumb - Duodenal atresia - Gastroesophageal reflux - Hypospadias - Intellectual disability - Macrotia - Metatarsal synostosis - Microcephaly - Overfolding of the superior helices - Partial duplication of thumb phalanx - Pseudoepiphyses of second metacarpal - Rectoperineal fistula - Rectovaginal fistula - Short metatarsal - Stahl ear - Umbilical hernia - Urethral valve - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Opitz G/BBB syndrome ?
Answer: X-linked Opitz G/BBB syndrome is thought to affect 1 in 10,000 to 50,000 males, although it is likely that this condition is underdiagnosed.  The incidence of autosomal dominant Opitz G/BBB syndrome is unknown. It is part of a larger condition known as 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, which is estimated to affect 1 in 4,000 people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to juvenile Batten disease ?
Answer: Most cases of juvenile Batten disease are caused by mutations in the CLN3 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein whose function is unknown.  It is unclear how mutations in the CLN3 gene lead to the characteristic features of juvenile Batten disease. These mutations somehow disrupt the function of cellular structures called lysosomes. Lysosomes are compartments in the cell that normally digest and recycle different types of molecules. Lysosome malfunction leads to a buildup of fatty substances called lipopigments within these cell structures. These accumulations occur in cells throughout the body, but neurons in the brain seem to be particularly vulnerable to the damage caused by lipopigments. The progressive death of cells, especially in the brain, leads to vision loss, seizures, and intellectual decline in people with juvenile Batten disease.  A small percentage of cases of juvenile Batten disease are caused by mutations in other genes. Many of these genes are involved in lysosomal function, and when mutated, can cause this or other forms of NCL.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for High Blood Pressure? ?
Answer: Anyone can develop high blood pressure; however, age, race or ethnicity, being overweight, gender, lifestyle habits, and a family history of high blood pressure can increase your risk for developing high blood pressure.
                
Age
                
Blood pressure tends to rise with age. About 65 percent of Americans age 60 or older have high blood pressure. However, the risk for prehypertension and high blood pressure is increasing for children and teens, possibly due to the rise in the number of overweight children and teens.
                
Race/Ethnicity
                
High blood pressure is more common in African American adults than in Caucasian or Hispanic American adults. Compared with these ethnic groups, African Americans:
                
Tend to get high blood pressure earlier in life.
                
Often, on average, have higher blood pressure numbers.
                
Are less likely to achieve target blood pressure goals with treatment.
                
Overweight
                
You are more likely to develop prehypertension or high blood pressure if youre overweight or obese. The terms overweight and obese refer to body weight thats greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
Gender
                
Before age 55, men are more likely than women to develop high blood pressure. After age 55, women are more likely than men to develop high blood pressure.
                
Lifestyle Habits
                
Unhealthy lifestyle habits can raise your risk for high blood pressure, and they include:
                
Eating too much sodium or too little potassium
                
Lack of physical activity
                
Drinking too much alcohol
                
Stress
                
Family History
                
A family history of high blood pressure raises the risk of developing prehypertension or high blood pressure. Some people have a high sensitivity to sodium and salt, which may increase their risk for high blood pressure and may run in families. Genetic causes of this condition are why family history is a risk factor for this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for vitamin D-dependent rickets ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of vitamin D-dependent rickets:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Vitamin D-dependent rickets, type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Vitamin D-dependent rickets, type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Vitamin d-dependent rickets, type 2b, with normal vitamin d receptor   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteoarthritis ?
Answer: Warning signs of osteoarthritis include -  joint pain  -  swelling or tenderness in one or more joints  -  stiffness after getting out of bed or sitting for a long time  -  a crunching feeling or sound of bone rubbing on bone.  joint pain swelling or tenderness in one or more joints stiffness after getting out of bed or sitting for a long time a crunching feeling or sound of bone rubbing on bone. Not everyone with osteoarthritis develops symptoms. In fact, only a third of people with x-ray evidence of osteoarthritis report pain or other symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What are the treatments for Treacher Collins syndrome ?
Answer: How might Treacher Collins syndrome be treated? There is currently no cure for Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS). Treatment is tailored to the specific needs of each affected person. Ideally, treatment is managed by a multidisciplinary team of craniofacial specialists. Newborns may need special positioning or tracheostomy to manage the airway. Hearing loss may be treated with bone conduction amplification, speech therapy, and/or educational intervention. In many cases, craniofacial reconstruction is needed. Surgery may be performed to repair cleft palate, to reconstruct the jaw, or to repair other bones in the skull. The specific surgical procedures used and the age when surgery is performed depends on the severity of the abnormalities, overall health and personal preference. There are some possible treatments that are being investigated. Researchers are looking for ways to inhibit a protein called p53, which helps the body to kill off unwanted cells. In people with TCS, p53 is abnormally activated, leading to the loss of specific cells and ultimately causing features of TCS. It has been proposed that inhibiting the production of p53 (or blocking its activation) may help to treat affected people. However, more research is needed to determine if this type of treatment is effective and safe. Researchers are also studying the use of stems cells found in fat tissue to be used alongside surgery in people with TCS and other craniofacial disorders. Early studies have shown that surgical outcomes may be improved using these stem cells to help stimulate the regrowth of affected areas. However, this therapy is still experimental and controversial.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Polyhydramnios, megalencephaly, and symptomatic epilepsy syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Polyhydramnios, megalencephaly, and symptomatic epilepsy syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Polyhydramnios, megalencephaly, and symptomatic epilepsy syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hyperplasia of midface 16/16 Hypertelorism 16/16 Large forehead 16/16 Long face 16/16 Muscular hypotonia 16/16 Polyhydramnios 16/16 Thick lower lip vermilion 16/16 Thick upper lip vermilion 16/16 Wide mouth 16/16 Wide nasal bridge 16/16 Macrocephaly 15/16 Premature birth 15/16 Atria septal defect 4/16 Diabetes insipidus 2/16 Nephrocalcinosis 2/16 Autosomal recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Warthin tumor ?
Answer: How might Warthin tumor be treated? Treatment of Warthin tumor generally includes surgery to remove the tumor or careful observation to watch for changes in the tumor over time. Because Warthin tumor is almost always benign, additional treatment (i.e. radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy) is rarely needed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome is not inherited. The chromosomal change responsible for the disorder typically occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent of the affected individual, usually the mother. Affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their families.  An error in cell division called nondisjunction likely results in a reproductive cell containing an isochromosome 12p. If this atypical reproductive cell contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have two normal copies of chromosome 12 along with an isochromosome 12p.  As cells divide during early development, some cells lose the isochromosome 12p, while other cells retain the abnormal chromosome. This situation is called mosaicism. Almost all cases of Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome are caused by mosaicism for an isochromosome 12p. If all of the body's cells contained the isochromosome, the resulting syndrome would probably not be compatible with life.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Diabetes ?
Answer: Many people with diabetes experience one or more symptoms, including extreme thirst or hunger, a frequent need to urinate and/or fatigue. Some lose weight without trying. Additional signs include sores that heal slowly, dry, itchy skin, loss of feeling or tingling in the feet and blurry eyesight. Some people with diabetes, however, have no symptoms at all.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is the outlook for Childhood Craniopharyngioma ?
Answer: Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:          - The size of the tumor.    - Where the tumor is in the brain.    - Whether there are tumor cells left after surgery.    - The child's age.    -  Side effects that may occur months or years after treatment.    - Whether the tumor has just been diagnosed or has recurred (come back).
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the symptoms of Brachyolmia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Brachyolmia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Brachyolmia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Platyspondyly 90% Short stature 90% Short thorax 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Porokeratosis of Mibelli ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Porokeratosis of Mibelli? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Porokeratosis of Mibelli. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 90% Hyperkeratosis 90% Cutaneous photosensitivity 50% Pruritus 50% Neoplasm of the skin 33% Abnormality of chromosome stability - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Middle age onset - Porokeratosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: Polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy, commonly known as PLOSL, is a progressive disorder that affects the bones and brain. "Polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia" refers to cyst-like bone changes that can be seen on x-rays. "Sclerosing leukoencephalopathy" describes specific changes in the brain that are found in people with this disorder.  The bone abnormalities associated with PLOSL usually become apparent in a person's twenties. In most affected individuals, pain and tenderness in the ankles and feet are the first symptoms of the disease. Several years later, broken bones (fractures) begin to occur frequently, particularly in bones of the ankles, feet, wrists, and hands. Bone pain and fractures are caused by thinning of the bones (osteoporosis) and cyst-like changes. These abnormalities weaken bones and make them more likely to break.  The brain abnormalities characteristic of PLOSL typically appear in a person's thirties. Personality changes are among the first noticeable problems, followed by a loss of judgment, feelings of intense happiness (euphoria), a loss of inhibition, and poor concentration. These neurologic changes cause significant problems in an affected person's social and family life. As the disease progresses, it causes a severe decline in thinking and reasoning abilities (dementia). Affected people ultimately become unable to walk, speak, or care for themselves. People with this disease usually live only into their thirties or forties.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, progeroid type ?
Answer: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type is caused by changes (mutations) in both of an individual's copies of the B4GALT7 gene, which is located on chromosome 5. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme that is involved in the production of collagen (the main protein in connective tissue). When not enough enzyme is made by the B4GALT7 genes, collagen is not formed correctly in connective tissue. The symptoms of the disorder are caused by weak connective tissue. Researchers are still studying exactly how mutations in the B4GALT7 gene cause the signs and symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) GM2-gangliosidosis, AB variant ?
Answer: GM2-gangliosidosis, AB variant is a rare inherited disorder that progressively destroys nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and spinal cord.  Signs and symptoms of the AB variant become apparent in infancy. Infants with this disorder typically appear normal until the age of 3 to 6 months, when their development slows and muscles used for movement weaken. Affected infants lose motor skills such as turning over, sitting, and crawling. They also develop an exaggerated startle reaction to loud noises. As the disease progresses, children with the AB variant experience seizures, vision and hearing loss, intellectual disability, and paralysis. An eye abnormality called a cherry-red spot, which can be identified with an eye examination, is characteristic of this disorder. Children with the AB variant usually live only into early childhood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Postural Tachycardia Syndrome ?
Answer: Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is one of a group of disorders that have orthostatic intolerance (OI) as their primary symptom. OI describes a condition in which an excessively reduced volume of blood returns to the heart after an individual stands up from a lying down position. The primary symptom of OI is lightheadedness or fainting. In POTS, the lightheadedness or fainting is also accompanied by a rapid increase in heartbeat of more than 30 beats per minute, or a heart rate that exceeds 120 beats per minute, within 10 minutes of rising. The faintness or lightheadedness of POTS are relieved by lying down again. Anyone at any age can develop POTS, but the majority of individuals affected (between 75 and 80 percent) are women between the ages of 15 to 50 years of age. Some women report an increase in episodes of POTS right before their menstrual periods. POTS often begins after a pregnancy, major surgery, trauma, or a viral illness. It may make individuals unable to exercise because the activity brings on fainting spells or dizziness.
                
Doctors aren't sure yet what causes the reduced return of blood to the heart that occurs in OI, or why the heart begins to beat so rapidly in POTS. Current thinking is that there are a number of mechanisms. Some individuals have peripheral denervation (neuropathic POTS); some have symptoms that are due to sustained or parosyxmal overactivity of the sympathetic nervous system (hyperadrenergic POTS); and many individuals with POTS have significant deconditioning.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome Disorder ?
Answer: Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome (AGS) is an inherited encephalopathy that affects newborn infants and usually results in severe mental and physical handicap. There are two forms of the syndrome: an early-onset form that is severe, and a late-onset form that has less impact upon neurological function. The early-onset form affects about 20 percent of all babies who have AGS. These infants are born with neurological and liver abnormalities, such as enlargement of the liver and spleen and elevated liver enzymes. Their jittery behavior and poor feeding ability mimic congenital viral infection.
                
Babies with later-onset AGS begin having symptoms after the first weeks or months of normal development, which appear as a progressive decline in head growth, weak or stiffened muscles (spasticity), and cognitive and developmental delays that range from moderate to severe. Symptoms last for several months, and include irritability, inconsolable crying, intermittent fever, seizures, and loss of developmental skills. Children may also have puffy swelling on the fingers, toes, and ears that resemble chilblains. A number of children have a noticeable startle reaction to sudden noise. For babies with the later-onset form, as symptoms lessen, there is no further worsening of the disease.
                
AGS is difficult to diagnose since many of the symptoms are similar to those of other disorders. Diagnosis is made based on the clinical symptoms of the disease, as well as characteristic brain abnormalities that can be seen in an MRI brain scan. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), taken using a "spinal tap," can also be tested for increased levels of a specific immune system cell (a lymphocyte), which indicates a condition known as chronic lymphocytosis. These cells are normally only elevated during infection, so that lymphocytosis without evidence of infection can be used as an indicator of AGS. CSF may also be tested for elevated levels of a substance known as interferon-gamma, which can also support a diagnosis of AGS.
                
The mutations of four different genes are associated with AGS:
                
- Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome-1 (AGS1) and AGS5 (an autosomal dominant form) are caused by a mutation in the TREX1 gene, - AGS2 is caused by a mutation in the RNASEH2B gene, - AGS3 is caused by a mutation in the RNASEH2C gene, - AGS4 is caused by a mutation in the RNASEH2A gene.
                
Most cases of AGS are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means that both parents of a child with AGS must carry a single copy of the defective gene responsible for the disease. Parents do not have any symptoms of disease, but with every child they have together, there is a one in four chance that the baby will receive two copies of the defective gene and inherit AGS.
                
NOTE: AGS is distinct from the similarly named Aicardi syndrome (characterized by absence of a brain structure (corpus callosum), and spinal, skeletal, and eye abnormalities).
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Weill-Marchesani syndrome ?
Answer: Mutations in the ADAMTS10 and FBN1 genes can cause Weill-Marchesani syndrome. The ADAMTS10 gene provides instructions for making a protein whose function is unknown. This protein is important for normal growth before and after birth, and it appears to be involved in the development of the eyes, heart, and skeleton. Mutations in this gene disrupt the normal development of these structures, which leads to the specific features of Weill-Marchesani syndrome.  A mutation in the FBN1 gene has also been found to cause Weill-Marchesani syndrome. The FBN1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called fibrillin-1. This protein is needed to form threadlike filaments, called microfibrils, that help provide strength and flexibility to connective tissue. The FBN1 mutation responsible for Weill-Marchesani syndrome leads to an unstable version of fibrillin-1. Researchers believe that the unstable protein interferes with the normal assembly of microfibrils, which weakens connective tissue and causes the abnormalities associated with Weill-Marchesani syndrome.  In some people with Weill-Marchesani syndrome, no mutations in ADAMTS10 or FBN1 have been found. Researchers are looking for other genetic changes that may be responsible for the disorder in these people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) desmosterolosis ?
Answer: Desmosterolosis is a condition that is characterized by neurological problems, such as brain abnormalities and developmental delay, and can also include other signs and symptoms.  Children with desmosterolosis have delayed speech and motor skills (such as sitting and walking). Later in childhood, some affected individuals are able to walk with support; verbal communication is often limited to a few words or phrases. Common brain abnormalities in desmosterolosis include malformation of the tissue that connects the left and right halves of the brain (the corpus callosum) and loss of white matter, which consists of nerve fibers covered by a fatty substance called myelin.  People with desmosterolosis commonly have muscle stiffness (spasticity) and stiff, rigid joints (arthrogryposis) affecting their hands and feet. Other features seen in some affected individuals include short stature, abnormal head size (either larger or smaller than normal), a small lower jaw (micrognathia), an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate), involuntary eye movements (nystagmus) or eyes that do not look in the same direction (strabismus), heart defects, and seizures.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Klinefelter syndrome ?
Answer: Klinefelter syndrome (KS) is a condition that occurs in males when they have an extra X chromosome. Some males with KS have no obvious signs or symptoms while others may have varying degrees of cognitive, social, behavioral, and learning difficulties. Adults with Klinefelter syndrome may also experience primary hypogonadism (decreased testosterone production), small testes, enlarged breast tissue (gynecomastia), tall stature, and/or infertility. KS is not inherited, but usually occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura ?
Answer: Blood clots, a low platelet count, and damaged red blood cells cause the signs and symptoms of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP).
                
The signs and symptoms include:
                
Purplish bruises on the skin or mucous membranes (such as in the mouth). These bruises, called purpura, are caused by bleeding under the skin.
                
Pinpoint-sized red or purple dots on the skin. These dots, called petechiae, often are found in groups and may look like a rash. Bleeding under the skin causes petechiae.
                
Paleness or jaundice (a yellowish color of the skin or whites of the eyes).
                
Fatigue (feeling very tired and weak).
                
Fever.
                
A fast heart rate or shortness of breath.
                
Headache, speech changes, confusion, coma, stroke, or seizure.
                
A low amount of urine, or protein or blood in the urine.
                
If you've had TTP and have any of these signs or symptoms, you may be having a relapse (flareup). Ask your doctor when to call him or her or seek emergency care.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the genetic changes related to IRAK-4 deficiency ?
Answer: IRAK-4 deficiency is caused by mutations in the IRAK4 gene, which provides instructions for making a protein that plays an important role in stimulating the immune system to respond to infection. The IRAK-4 protein is part of a signaling pathway that is involved in early recognition of foreign invaders (pathogens) and the initiation of inflammation to fight infection. This signaling pathway is part of the innate immune response, which is the body's early, nonspecific response to pathogens.  Mutations in the IRAK4 gene lead to the production of a nonfunctional protein or no protein at all. The loss of functional IRAK-4 protein prevents the immune system from triggering inflammation in response to pathogens that would normally help fight the infections. Because the early immune response is insufficient, bacterial infections occur often and become severe and invasive.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Celiac artery compression syndrome ?
Answer: How might celiac artery compression syndrome be treated? Surgery is currently the only treatment option for celiac artery compression syndrome. Surgery typically involves decompression of the celiac artery by dividing the fibers of the median arcuate ligament and celiac plexus (network of nerves in the abdomen). Surgical decompression might additionally be combined with stent placement, angioplasty, or vascular reconstruction of the celiac artery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Alopecia intellectual disability syndrome 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Alopecia intellectual disability syndrome 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Alopecia intellectual disability syndrome 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Alopecia universalis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Intellectual disability - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis ?
Answer: SJS/TEN is a rare disease, affecting 1 to 2 per million people each year. Stevens-Johnson syndrome (the less severe form of the condition) is more common than toxic epidermal necrolysis.  People who are HIV-positive and those with a chronic inflammatory disease called systemic lupus erythematosus are more likely to develop SJS/TEN than the general population. The reason for the increased risk is unclear, but immune system factors and exposure to multiple medications may play a role.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Dwarfism stiff joint ocular abnormalities ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Dwarfism stiff joint ocular abnormalities? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dwarfism stiff joint ocular abnormalities. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cataract - Delayed ossification of carpal bones - Disproportionate short-limb short stature - Glaucoma - Hypermetropia - Joint stiffness - Retinal detachment - Severe short stature - Short lower limbs - Short phalanx of finger - Thickened skin - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Atria septal defect 5% Cardiomegaly 5% Mitral valve prolapse 5% Retroperitoneal fibrosis 5% Ventricular septal defect 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Camptodactyly - Clinodactyly - Diabetes mellitus - Elbow flexion contracture - Episcleritis - Fever - Growth hormone deficiency - Hallux valgus - Hepatomegaly - Histiocytosis - Hypergonadotropic hypogonadism - Lymphadenopathy - Phenotypic variability - Proptosis - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Short stature - Splenomegaly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Warfarin syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Warfarin syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Warfarin syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal vertebral ossification 90% Anteverted nares 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Epiphyseal stippling 90% Short nose 90% Anonychia 50% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Short distal phalanx of finger 50% Short neck 50% Abnormality of the outer ear 7.5% Abnormality of the tongue 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Choanal atresia 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Hypertelorism 7.5% Muscular hypotonia 7.5% Myelomeningocele 7.5% Optic atrophy 7.5% Proptosis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Visual impairment 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is essential pentosuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura ?
Answer: Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) can be fatal or cause lasting damage, such as brain damage or a stroke, if it's not treated right away.
                
In most cases, TTP occurs suddenly and lasts for days or weeks, but it can go on for months. Relapses (flareups) can occur in up to 60 percent of people who have acquired TTP. Flareups also occur in most people who have inherited TTP.
                
Plasma treatments are the most common way to treat TTP. Other treatments include medicines and surgery. Treatments are done in a hospital.
                
Plasma Therapy
                
Plasma is the liquid part of your blood. It carries blood cells, hormones, enzymes, and nutrients to your body.
                
TTP is treated with plasma therapy. This includes:
                
Fresh frozen plasma for people who have inherited TTP
                
Plasma exchange for people who have acquired TTP
                
Plasma therapy is started in the hospital as soon as TTP is diagnosed or suspected.
                
For inherited TTP, fresh frozen plasma is given through an intravenous (IV) line inserted into a vein. This is done to replace the missing or changed ADAMTS13 enzyme.
                
Plasma exchange (also called plasmapheresis) is used to treat acquired TTP. This is a lifesaving procedure. It removes antibodies (proteins) from the blood that damage your ADAMTS13 enzyme. Plasma exchange also replaces the ADAMTS13 enzyme.
                
If plasma exchange isn't available, you may be given fresh frozen plasma until it is available.
                
During plasma exchange, an IV needle or tube is placed in a vein in your arm to remove blood. The blood goes through a cell separator, which removes plasma from the blood. The nonplasma part of the blood is saved, and donated plasma is added to it.
                
Then, the blood is put back into you through an IV line inserted into one of your blood vessels. The time required to complete the procedure varies, but it often takes about 2hours.
                
Treatments of fresh frozen plasma or plasma exchange usually continue until your blood tests results and signs and symptoms improve. This can take days or weeks, depending on your condition. You'll stay in the hospital while you recover.
                
Some people who recover from TTP have flareups. This can happen in the hospital or after you go home. If you have a flareup, your doctor will restart plasma therapy.
                
Other Treatments
                
Other treatments are used if plasma therapy doesn't work well or if flareups occur often.
                
For acquired TTP, medicines can slow or stop antibodies to the ADAMTS13 enzyme from forming. Medicines used to treat TTP include glucocorticoids, vincristine, rituximab, and cyclosporine A.
                
Sometimes surgery to remove the spleen (an organ in the abdomen) is needed. This is because cells in the spleen make the antibodies that block ADAMTS13 enzyme activity.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: Who is at risk for Anal Cancer? ?
Answer: Being infected with the human papillomavirus (HPV) increases the risk of developing anal cancer. Risk factors include the following:         - Being infected with human papillomavirus (HPV).    - Having many sexual partners.    - Having receptive anal intercourse (anal sex).    - Being older than 50 years.    - Frequent anal redness, swelling, and soreness.     - Having anal fistulas (abnormal openings).    - Smoking cigarettes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) 22q11.2 duplication ?
Answer: 22q11.2 duplication is a condition caused by an extra copy of a small piece of chromosome 22. The duplication occurs near the middle of the chromosome at a location designated q11.2.  The features of this condition vary widely, even among members of the same family. Affected individuals may have developmental delay, intellectual disability, slow growth leading to short stature, and weak muscle tone (hypotonia). Many people with the duplication have no apparent physical or intellectual disabilities.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Popliteal pterygium syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Popliteal pterygium syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Popliteal pterygium syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cleft palate 90% Hypertrichosis 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Thin vermilion border 90% Toe syndactyly 90% Abnormality of female external genitalia 50% Abnormality of the palpebral fissures 50% Abnormality of the ribs 50% Abnormality of the toenails 50% Bifid scrotum 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Lip pit 50% Non-midline cleft lip 50% Popliteal pterygium 50% Scoliosis 50% Scrotal hypoplasia 50% Talipes 50% Choanal atresia 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Split hand 7.5% Ankyloblepharon - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cleft upper lip - Cutaneous finger syndactyly - Dementia - Fibrous syngnathia - Hypoplasia of the uterus - Hypoplasia of the vagina - Hypoplastic labia majora - Intercrural pterygium - Lower lip pit - Pyramidal skinfold extending from the base to the top of the nails - Spina bifida occulta - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Birdshot chorioretinopathy ?
Answer: Birdshot chorioretinopathy is an eye condition in which painless, light-colored spots develop on the retina.  These spots are scattered in a "birdshot" pattern.  The effects of this condition on vision are quite variable; some individuals' vision is only mildly affected, whereas others experience a significant decline in vision, the appearance of floaters (small specks that appear in one's line of sight), night blindness, and other vision problems.  Symptoms typically begin around middle age; Caucasians are affected more than individuals of other ethnicities.  The cause of birdshot chorioretinopathy is currently unknown, but it is suspected to be an autoimmune disease.  Treatment may include medications that aim to regulate the body's immune response.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by focal dermal hypoplasia ?
Answer: Focal dermal hypoplasia appears to be a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome ?
Answer: Thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome has been reported in approximately 30 families worldwide. Its prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is COL4A1-related brain small-vessel disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. Rarely, new mutations in the gene occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Short rib-polydactyly syndrome type 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Short rib-polydactyly syndrome type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Short rib-polydactyly syndrome type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Limb undergrowth 90% Narrow chest 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Short thorax 90% Short toe 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 50% Congenital hepatic fibrosis 50% Depressed nasal bridge 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Epicanthus 50% Frontal bossing 50% Hydrops fetalis 50% Long philtrum 50% Macrocephaly 50% Median cleft lip 50% Postaxial hand polydactyly 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Ectopic anus 7.5% Midline facial cleft 7.5% Omphalocele 7.5% Polycystic kidney dysplasia 7.5% Preaxial hand polydactyly 7.5% Ventriculomegaly 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Chronic lymphocytic inflammation with pontine perivascular enhancement responsive to steroids ?
Answer: How might CLIPPERS be treated? The signs and symptoms of CLIPPERS typically improve after treatment with steroids. Initial treatment may involve a short course of high dose steroids given intravenously, and then oral steroids. Many patients experience a relapse when steroids are tapered off, so it is usually necessary to continue treatment that suppresses the immune system. Long term treatment may include a low dose of oral steroids and another type of immune suppressant, such as methotrexate or rituximab. Because there have been very few patients with CLIPPERS reported in medical journals, the best course of treatment has not yet been determined.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for congenital diaphragmatic hernia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of congenital diaphragmatic hernia:  - Boston Children's Hospital  - Children's Hospital of Philadelphia  - Columbia University Medical Center: DHREAMS  - Columbia University Medical Center: Hernia Repair  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia Overview  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital diaphragmatic hernia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diaphragmatic hernia 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diaphragmatic hernia 3  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Diaphragmatic Hernia Repair  - Seattle Children's Hospital: Treatment of Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia  - University of California, San Francisco Fetal Treatment Center: Congenital Diaphragmatic Hernia  - University of Michigan Health System   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome:  - Autism Speaks: How is Autism Treated?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Atypical Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ?
Answer: Signs and symptoms of atypical chronic myelogenous leukemia include easy bruising or bleeding and feeling tired and weak. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by atypical CML or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         - Shortness of breath.    - Pale skin.    - Feeling very tired and weak.    - Easy bruising or bleeding.    -  Petechiae (flat, pinpoint spots under the skin caused by bleeding).    - Pain or a feeling of fullness below the ribs on the left side.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the treatments for malignant hyperthermia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of malignant hyperthermia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Malignant Hyperthermia Susceptibility  - Genetic Testing Registry: Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility type 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility type 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility type 6  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Malignant Hyperthermia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Williams syndrome ?
Answer: Williams syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 7,500 to 10,000 people.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis ?
Answer: Infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis is a rare disorder, with at least 30 cases reported in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Childhood Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors ?
Answer: Signs and symptoms of childhood CNS embryonal tumors or pineoblastomas depend on the child's age and where the tumor is. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by childhood CNS embryonal tumors, pineoblastomas, or other conditions. Check with your child's doctor if your child has any of the following:         - Loss of balance, trouble walking, worsening handwriting, or slow speech.    - Lack of coordination.    - Headache, especially in the morning, or headache that goes away after vomiting.    - Double vision or other eye problems.    -  Nausea and vomiting.    - General weakness or weakness on one side of the face.    - Unusual sleepiness or change in energy level.    -  Seizures.        Infants and young children with these tumors may be irritable or grow slowly. Also they may not eat well or meet developmental milestones such as sitting, walking, and talking in sentences.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: Is neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus inherited ?
Answer: Familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is almost always inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered AVP gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In a few affected families, the condition has had an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder ?
Answer: Attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurobehavioral disorder that affects 3-5 percent of all American children. It interferes with a person's ability to stay on a task and to exercise age-appropriate inhibition (cognitive alone or both cognitive and behavioral). Some of the warning signs of ADHD include failure to listen to instructions, inability to organize oneself and school work, fidgeting with hands and feet, talking too much, leaving projects, chores and homework unfinished, and having trouble paying attention to and responding to details. There are several types of ADHD: a predominantly inattentive subtype, a predominantly hyperactive-impulsive subtype, and a combined subtype. ADHD is usually diagnosed in childhood, although the condition can continue into the adult years.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Hirschsprung disease type 3 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hirschsprung disease type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hirschsprung disease type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aganglionic megacolon - Autosomal dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Stroke ?
Answer: There are two kinds of stroke. The most common kind of stroke is called ischemic stroke. It accounts for approximately 80 percent of all strokes. An ischemic stroke is caused by a blood clot that blocks or plugs a blood vessel in the brain. The other kind of stroke is called hemorrhagic stroke. A hemorrhagic stroke is caused by a blood vessel that breaks and bleeds into the brain.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: How to diagnose Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors ?
Answer: Tests that examine the brain and spinal cord are used to detect (find) childhood brain and spinal cord tumors. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.     -   Neurological exam : A series of questions and tests to check the brain, spinal cord, and nerve function. The exam checks a persons mental status, coordination, and ability to walk normally, and how well the muscles, senses, and reflexes work. This may also be called a neuro exam or a neurologic exam.     -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) with gadolinium : A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of the brain and spinal cord. A substance called gadolinium is injected into a vein. The gadolinium collects around the cancer cells so they show up brighter in the picture. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   Serum tumor marker test : A procedure in which a sample of blood is examined to measure the amounts of certain substances released into the blood by organs, tissues, or tumor cells in the body. Certain substances are linked to specific types of cancer when found in increased levels in the blood. These are called tumor markers.
                         Most childhood brain tumors are diagnosed and removed in surgery. If doctors think there might be a brain tumor, a biopsy may be done to remove a sample of tissue. For tumors in the brain, the biopsy is done by removing part of the skull and using a needle to remove a sample of tissue. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. If cancer cells are found, the doctor may remove as much tumor as safely possible during the same surgery. The pathologist checks the cancer cells to find out the type and grade of brain tumor. The grade of the tumor is based on how abnormal the cancer cells look under a microscope and how quickly the tumor is likely to grow and spread.    The following test may be done on the sample of tissue that is removed:         -   Immunohistochemistry : A test that uses antibodies to check for certain antigens in a sample of tissue. The antibody is usually linked to a radioactive substance or a dye that causes the tissue to light up under a microscope. This type of test may be used to tell the difference between different types of cancer.         
                    					Some childhood brain and spinal cord tumors are diagnosed by imaging tests. Sometimes a biopsy or surgery cannot be done safely because of where the tumor formed in the brain or spinal cord. These tumors are diagnosed based on the results of imaging tests and other procedures.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: Cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy, commonly known as CARASIL, is an inherited condition that causes stroke and other impairments. This progressive condition is characterized by muscle stiffness, mood and personality changes, dementia, memory loss, alopecia of the scalp, and attacks of low back pain. CARASIL is caused by mutations in the HTRA1 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter ?
Answer: Signs and symptoms of transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter include blood in the urine and back pain. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter or by other conditions. There may be no signs or symptoms in the early stages. Signs and symptoms may appear as the tumor grows. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         - Blood in the urine.    - A pain in the back that doesn't go away.    - Extreme tiredness.    -  Weight loss with no known reason.     - Painful or frequent urination.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Throat Disorders ?
Answer: Your throat is a tube that carries food to your esophagus and air to your windpipe and larynx. The technical name for throat is pharynx.     Throat problems are common. You've probably had a sore throat. The cause is usually a viral infection, but other causes include allergies, infection with strep bacteria or the upward movement of stomach acids into the esophagus, called GERD.     Other problems that affect the throat include       - Tonsillitis - an infection in the tonsils    - Pharyngitis - inflammation of the pharynx     - Cancers     - Croup - inflammation, usually in small children, which causes a barking cough       Most throat problems are minor and go away on their own. Treatments, when needed, depend on the problem.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia ?
Answer: Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia is characterized by lesions in the upper and/or lower jaw that occur when normal bone is replaced with a mix of connective tissue and abnormal bone. It tends to affect middle aged women, particularly women of African American and Asian descent. The lesions often affect both sides of the jaw and are symmetrical. The number, size, and shape of the lesions vary. Occasionally the lesions expand and may cause discomfort, pain, or mild disfigurement. The radiographic appearance of the lesions are important for diagnosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Who is at risk for Deep Vein Thrombosis? ?
Answer: The risk factors for deep vein thrombosis (DVT) include:
                
A history of DVT.
                
Conditions or factors that make your blood thicker or more likely to clot than normal. Some inherited blood disorders (such as factor V Leiden) will do this. Hormone therapy or birth control pills also increase the risk of clotting.
                
Injury to a deep vein from surgery, a broken bone, or other trauma.
                
Slow blood flow in a deep vein due to lack of movement. This may occur after surgery, if you're ill and in bed for a long time, or if you're traveling for a long time.
                
Pregnancy and the first 6 weeks after giving birth.
                
Recent or ongoing treatment for cancer.
                
A central venous catheter. This is a tube placed in a vein to allow easy access to the bloodstream for medical treatment.
                
Older age. Being older than 60 is a risk factor for DVT, although DVT can occur at any age.
                
Overweight or obesity.
                
Smoking.
                
Your risk for DVT increases if you have more than one of the risk factors listed above.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: How to diagnose What I need to know about Hepatitis A ?
Answer: A blood test will show if you have hepatitis A. Blood tests are done at a doctors office or outpatient facility. A blood sample is taken using a needle inserted into a vein in your arm or hand. The blood sample is sent to a lab to test for hepatitis A.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Nablus mask-like facial syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Nablus mask-like facial syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Nablus mask-like facial syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the antihelix 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 90% Behavioral abnormality 90% Blepharophimosis 90% Cryptorchidism 90% Depressed nasal ridge 90% External ear malformation 90% Highly arched eyebrow 90% Lack of skin elasticity 90% Long philtrum 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Pointed helix 90% Sacrococcygeal pilonidal abnormality 90% Telecanthus 90% Abnormality of dental morphology 50% Abnormality of the nipple 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Microcephaly 50% Sandal gap 50% Short neck 50% Abnormal hair quantity 7.5% Abnormality of the eyelashes 7.5% Abnormality of the nares 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Craniosynostosis 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Abnormality of the teeth - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Broad neck - Camptodactyly - Clinodactyly - Depressed nasal bridge - Frontal bossing - Frontal upsweep of hair - Happy demeanor - High palate - Hypertelorism - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Hypoplastic nipples - Joint contracture of the hand - Labial hypoplasia - Low anterior hairline - Low-set ears - Mask-like facies - Micropenis - Narrow forehead - Narrow mouth - Posteriorly rotated ears - Postnatal microcephaly - Prominent glabella - Retrognathia - Short nose - Short palpebral fissure - Smooth philtrum - Sparse eyebrow - Sparse eyelashes - Sporadic - Tapered finger - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type VII ?
Answer: GSDVII is thought to be a rare condition; more than 100 cases have been described in the scientific literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy is seen almost exclusively in Japan, where it is the second most common form of childhood muscular dystrophy (after Duchenne muscular dystrophy). Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy has an estimated incidence of 2 to 4 per 100,000 Japanese infants.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Inflammatory Myopathies ?
Answer: The inflammatory myopathies are a group of diseases, with no known cause, that involve chronic muscle inflammation accompanied by muscle weakness. The three main types of chronic, or persistent, inflammatory myopathy are polymyositis, dermatomyositis, and inclusion body myositis (IBM). These rare disorders may affect both adults and children, although dermatomyositis is more common in children. Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are more common in women than in men. General symptoms of chronic inflammatory myopathy include slow but progressive muscle weakness that starts in the proximal musclesthose muscles closest to the trunk of the body. Other symptoms include fatigue after walking or standing, tripping or falling, and difficulty swallowing or breathing. Some patients may have slight muscle pain or muscles that are tender to the touch. Polymyositis affects skeletal muscles (involved with making movement) on both sides of the body. Dermatomyositis is characterized by a skin rash that precedes or accompanies progressive muscle weakness. IBM is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and wasting. Juvenile myositis has some similarities to adult dermatomyositis and polymyositis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by septo-optic dysplasia ?
Answer: Septo-optic dysplasia has a reported incidence of 1 in 10,000 newborns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Y chromosome infertility inherited ?
Answer: Because Y chromosome infertility impedes the ability to father children, this condition is usually caused by new deletions on the Y chromosome and occurs in men with no history of the disorder in their family. When men with Y chromosome infertility do father children, either naturally or with the aid of assisted reproductive technologies, they pass on the genetic changes on the Y chromosome to all their sons. As a result, the sons will also have Y chromosome infertility. This form of inheritance is called Y-linked. Daughters, who do not inherit the Y chromosome, are not affected.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is myosin storage myopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Weill-Marchesani syndrome ?
Answer: Weill-Marchesani syndrome is a disorder of connective tissue. Connective tissue forms the body's supportive framework, providing structure and strength to the muscles, joints, organs, and skin.  The major signs and symptoms of Weill-Marchesani syndrome include short stature, eye abnormalities, unusually short fingers and toes (brachydactyly), and joint stiffness. Adult height for men with Weill-Marchesani syndrome ranges from 4 feet, 8 inches to 5 feet, 6 inches. Adult height for women with this condition ranges from 4 feet, 3 inches to 5 feet, 2 inches.  An eye abnormality called microspherophakia is characteristic of Weill-Marchesani syndrome. This term refers to a small, sphere-shaped lens, which is associated with nearsightedness (myopia) that worsens over time. The lens also may be positioned abnormally within the eye (ectopia lentis). Many people with Weill-Marchesani syndrome develop glaucoma, an eye disease that increases the pressure in the eye and can lead to blindness.  Occasionally, heart defects or an abnormal heart rhythm can occur in people with Weill-Marchesani syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Dopa-responsive dystonia ?
Answer: Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) is an inherited type of dystonia that typically begins during childhood but may begin in adolescence or adulthood. Depending on the specific type of DRD, specific symptoms can vary. Features can range from mild to severe. In most cases, dystonia begins in the lower limbs and spreads to the upper limbs over time. Symptoms may include unusual limb positioning; a lack of coordination when walking or running; sleep problems; and episodes of depression. Affected people also often develop a group of movement abnormalities called parkinsonism. Although movement difficulties usually worsen with age, they often stabilize around age 30. DRD may be caused by mutations in the GCH1, TH or SPR genes, or the cause may be unknown. Depending on the genetic cause, DRD may be inherited in an autosomal dominant (most commonly) or autosomal recessive manner. This form of dystonia is called 'dopa-responsive' dystonia because the symptoms typically improve during treatment with levodopa and carbidopa.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to pseudoxanthoma elasticum ?
Answer: Mutations in the ABCC6 gene cause PXE. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called MRP6 (also known as the ABCC6 protein). This protein is found primarily in cells of the liver and kidneys, with small amounts in other tissues, including the skin, stomach, blood vessels, and eyes. MRP6 is thought to transport certain substances across the cell membrane; however, the substances have not been identified. Some studies suggest that the MRP6 protein stimulates the release of a molecule called adenosine triphosphate (ATP) from cells through an unknown mechanism. ATP can be broken down into other molecules, including adenosine monophosphate (AMP) and pyrophosphate. Pyrophosphate helps control deposition of calcium and other minerals in the body. Other studies suggest that a substance transported by MRP6 is involved in the breakdown of ATP. This unidentified substance is thought to help prevent mineralization of tissues.  Mutations in the ABCC6 gene lead to an absent or nonfunctional MRP6 protein. It is unclear how a lack of properly functioning MRP6 protein leads to PXE. This shortage may impair the release of ATP from cells. As a result, little pyrophosphate is produced, and calcium and other minerals accumulate in elastic fibers of the skin, eyes, blood vessels and other tissues affected by PXE. Alternatively, a lack of functioning MRP6 may impair the transport of a substance that would normally prevent mineralization, leading to the abnormal accumulation of calcium and other minerals characteristic of PXE.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Koolen-de Vries syndrome ?
Answer: Koolen-de Vries syndrome is a disorder characterized by developmental delay and mild to moderate intellectual disability. People with this disorder typically have a disposition that is described as cheerful, sociable, and cooperative. They usually have weak muscle tone (hypotonia) in childhood. About half have recurrent seizures (epilepsy).  Affected individuals often have distinctive facial features including a high, broad forehead; droopy eyelids (ptosis); a narrowing of the eye openings (blepharophimosis); outer corners of the eyes that point upward (upward-slanting palpebral fissures); skin folds covering the inner corner of the eyes (epicanthal folds); a bulbous nose; and prominent ears. Males with Koolen-de Vries syndrome often have undescended testes (cryptorchidism). Defects in the walls between the chambers of the heart (septal defects) or other cardiac abnormalities, kidney problems, and skeletal anomalies such as foot deformities occur in some affected individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Proteinuria ?
Answer: Proteinuria has no signs or symptoms in the early stages. Large amounts of protein in the urine may cause it to look foamy in the toilet. Also, because protein has left the body, the blood can no longer soak up enough fluid, so swelling in the hands, feet, abdomen, or face may occur. This swelling is called edema. These are signs of large protein loss and indicate that kidney disease has progressed. Laboratory testing is the only way to find out whether protein is in a persons urine before extensive kidney damage occurs.
                
Several health organizations recommend regular urine checks for people at risk for CKD. A 1996 study sponsored by the National Institutes of Health determined that proteinuria is the best predictor of progressive kidney failure in people with type 2 diabetes. The American Diabetes Association recommends regular urine testing for proteinuria for people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. The National Kidney Foundation recommends that routine checkups include testing for excess protein in the urine, especially for people in high-risk groups.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: Is mucopolysaccharidosis type III inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome ?
Answer: What causes tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS)? TRAPS is a genetic condition caused by mutations in a gene called TNFRSF1A. This gene gives the body instructions to make a protein called tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1). This protein exists in cell membranes where it binds to another protein called tumor necrosis factor (TNF). The binding sends signals that tell the cells to trigger inflammation (producing immune system proteins) or self-destruct. Most TNFRSF1A gene mutations that cause TRAPS result in incorrectly-shaped TNFR1 proteins, which become trapped in cells and cannot reach the surface to bind with TNF. The trapped proteins then clump together and are thought to trigger other pathways involved in causing inflammation. Affected people typically have a mutation in only one of their 2 copies of the TNFRSF1A gene, so some normal TNFR1 proteins are still produced, leading to even more inflammation. This is what leads to excess inflammation in people with TRAPS. It is unclear if abnormalities in the cells' ability to self-destruct also plays a role in causing the features of TRAPS.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is the outlook for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ?
Answer: Certain factors affect treatment options and prognosis (chance of recovery). Treatment options depend on:         - The stage of the disease.    - Red blood cell, white blood cell, and platelet blood counts.    - Whether there are signs or symptoms, such as fever, chills, or weight loss.    - Whether the liver, spleen, or lymph nodes are larger than normal.    - The response to initial treatment.    - Whether the CLL has recurred (come back).        The prognosis (chance of recovery) depends on:         - Whether there is a change in the DNA and the type of change, if there is one.    - Whether lymphocytes are spread throughout the bone marrow.    - The stage of the disease.    - Whether the CLL gets better with treatment or has recurred (come back).    - Whether the CLL progresses to lymphoma or prolymphocytic leukemia.    - The patient's general health.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency ?
Answer: Adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency is a rare disorder; fewer than 100 cases have been reported. The condition is most common in the Netherlands and Belgium, but it has been found worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Balance Problems ?
Answer: Some balance disorders are caused by problems in the inner ear. The part of the inner ear that is responsible for balance is the vestibular system, often refered to as the labyrinth. When the labyrinth becomes infected or swollen -- a condition called labyrinthitis -- it is typically accompanied by vertigo and imbalance. Upper respiratory infections, other viral infections, and, less commonly, bacterial infections, can lead to labyrinthitis. Other balance disorders may involve another part of the body, such as the brain or the heart. For example, diseases of the circulatory system, such as stroke, can cause dizziness and other balance problems. Smoking and diabetes can increase the risk of stroke. Low blood pressure also can cause dizziness. Aging, infections, head injury, and many medicines may also result in a balance problem.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: How many people are affected by breast cancer ?
Answer: Breast cancer is the second most commonly diagnosed cancer in women. (Only skin cancer is more common.) About one in eight women in the United States will develop invasive breast cancer in her lifetime. Researchers estimate that more than 230,000 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed in U.S. women in 2015.  Male breast cancer represents less than 1 percent of all breast cancer diagnoses. Scientists estimate that about 2,300 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in men in 2015.  Particular gene mutations associated with breast cancer are more common among certain geographic or ethnic groups, such as people of Ashkenazi (central or eastern European) Jewish heritage and people of Norwegian, Icelandic, or Dutch ancestry.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to CASK-related intellectual disability ?
Answer: CASK-related intellectual disability, as its name suggests, is caused by mutations in the CASK gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase (CASK). The CASK protein is primarily found in nerve cells (neurons) in the brain, where it helps control the activity (expression) of other genes that are involved in brain development. It also helps regulate the movement of chemicals called neurotransmitters and of charged atoms (ions), which are necessary for signaling between neurons. Research suggests that the CASK protein may also interact with the protein produced from another gene, FRMD7, to promote development of the nerves that control eye movement (the oculomotor neural network).  Mutations in the CASK gene affect the role of the CASK protein in brain development and function, resulting in the signs and symptoms of CASK-related intellectual disability. The severe form of this disorder, MICPCH, is caused by mutations that eliminate CASK function, while mutations that impair the function of this protein cause the milder form, XL-ID with or without nystagmus. Affected individuals with nystagmus may have CASK gene mutations that disrupt the interaction between the CASK protein and the protein produced from the FRMD7 gene, leading to problems with the development of the oculomotor neural network and resulting in abnormal eye movements.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose 2009 H1N1 Flu ?
Answer: Content on this page was developed during the 2009-2010 H1N1 pandemic and has not been updated. 
    
    - The H1N1 virus that caused that pandemic is now a regular human flu virus and continues to circulate seasonally worldwide. 
    - The English language content on this website is being archived for historic and reference purposes only.  
    
    
  General Information 
    
   
  Information for Health Care Professionals
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Cryosurgery     Cryosurgery is a treatment that uses an instrument to freeze and destroy prostate cancer cells. Ultrasound is used to find the area that will be treated. This type of treatment is also called cryotherapy.    Cryosurgery can cause impotence and leakage of urine from the bladder or stool from the rectum.       High-intensityfocused ultrasound therapy     High-intensityfocused ultrasound therapy is a treatment that uses ultrasound (high-energy sound waves) to destroy cancer cells. To treat prostate cancer, an endorectal probe is used to make the sound waves.       Proton beam radiation therapy     Proton beam radiation therapy is a type of high-energy, external radiation therapy that targets tumors with streams of protons (small, positively charged particles). This type of radiation therapy is being studied in the treatment of prostate cancer.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) Small Intestine Disorders ?
Answer: Your small intestine is the longest part of your digestive system - about twenty feet long! It connects your stomach to your large intestine (or colon) and folds many times to fit inside your abdomen. Your small intestine does most of the digesting of the foods you eat. It has three areas called the duodenum, the ileum, and the jejunum.    Problems with the small intestine can include:       - Bleeding    - Celiac disease    - Crohn's disease    - Infections    - Intestinal cancer    - Intestinal obstruction    - Irritable bowel syndrome    - Ulcers, such as peptic ulcer       Treatment of disorders of the small intestine depends on the cause.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is isolated Pierre Robin sequence inherited ?
Answer: Isolated Pierre Robin sequence is usually not inherited. It typically results from new genetic changes and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. When the condition is inherited, it follows an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered DNA in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer ?
Answer: Tests that examine the sinuses and nasal cavity are used to detect (find) and diagnose paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -  Physical exam of the nose, face, and neck: An exam in which the doctor looks into the nose with a small, long-handled mirror to check for abnormal areas and checks the face and neck for lumps or swollen lymph nodes.    -   X-rays of the head and neck: An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer. There are three types of biopsy:               -  Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy : The removal of tissue or fluid using a thin needle.      -  Incisional biopsy : The removal of part of an area of tissue that doesnt look normal.       -  Excisional biopsy : The removal of an entire area of tissue that doesnt look normal.             -   Nasoscopy : A procedure to look inside the nose for abnormal areas. A nasoscope is inserted into the nose. A nasoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. A special tool on the nasoscope may be used to remove samples of tissue. The tissues samples are viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer.    -   Laryngoscopy : A procedure to look at the larynx (voice box) for abnormal areas. A mirror or a laryngoscope (a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing) is inserted through the mouth to see the larynx. A special tool on the laryngoscope may be used to remove samples of tissue. The tissue samples are viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What causes Pigmented villonodular synovitis ?
Answer: What causes pigmented villonodular synovitis? The exact cause of pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) is unknown.  Some doctors believe that it is similar to arthritis, arising from swelling (inflammation) of the joint tissue. Others believe it develops like a tumor, caused by cells growing and multiplying more quickly than usual. The association between a history of trauma and the development of  PVNS is unclear. One study found that 56% of individuals with PVNS had a history of previous trauma, while other studies have found a much lower incidence.  There have been studies suggesting that PVNS could be caused by specific genetic changes in the cells lining the joint. More studies are needed to research this association.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 2 ?
Answer: Osteopetrosis is a bone disease that makes bones abnormally dense and prone to breakage (fracture). Researchers have described several major types of osteopetrosis, which are usually distinguished by their pattern of inheritance: autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked. The different types of the disorder can also be distinguished by the severity of their signs and symptoms. Mutations in at least nine genes cause the various types of osteopetrosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Toe Injuries and Disorders ?
Answer: Fourteen of the 26 bones in your feet are in your toes. The toes, particularly your big toe, help you move and keep your balance. Playing sports, running, and receiving a blow to the foot can damage your toes. Wearing shoes that are too loose or too tight can also cause toe problems. Certain diseases, such as severe arthritis, can cause toe problems and pain. Gout often causes pain in the big toe.    Common toe problems include        -  Corns and bunions    -  Ingrown toenails    -  Toe joint sprains and dislocations    -  Fractured toe bones       Treatments for toe injuries and disorders vary. They might include shoe inserts or special shoes, padding, taping, medicines, rest, and in severe cases, surgery.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: how can y. enterocolitica infections be treated for Yersinia ?
Answer: Uncomplicated cases of diarrhea due to Y. enterocolitica usually resolve on their own without antibiotic treatment. However, in more severe or complicated infections, antibiotics such as aminoglycosides, doxycycline, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, or fluoroquinolones may be useful.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: How many people are affected by congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency accounts for 5 to 8 percent of all cases of congenital adrenal hyperplasia. It is estimated that CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency occurs in 1 in 100,000 to 200,000 newborns. This condition is more common in Moroccan Jews living in Israel, occurring in approximately 1 in 5,000 to 7,000 newborns. The classic form of CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency appears to be much more common than the non-classic form.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Back Pain ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct pain research in laboratories at the NIH and also support pain research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently, researchers are examining the use of different drugs to effectively treat back pain, in particular, chronic pain that has lasted at least 6 months. Other studies are comparing different health care approaches to the management of acute low back pain (standard care versus chiropractic, acupuncture, or massage therapy). These studies are measuring symptom relief, restoration of function, and patient satisfaction. Other research is comparing standard surgical treatments to the most commonly used standard nonsurgical treatments to measure changes in health-related quality of life among patients suffering from spinal stenosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Financial Help for Diabetes Care ?
Answer: Medicaid is a state health insurance program for those with low incomes and few assets. Each state runs its own program. The Federal Government requires that Medicaid programs cover a specific set of services; however, states can choose to cover more services in addition to the ones required. A person may have Medicaid alone or Medicare and Medicaid. If a person has both types of coverage, Medicare pays first and Medicaid pays second. Medicaid may pay for things Medicare does not. A person can apply for Medicaid at a city or county department of social services office. The state medical assistance (Medicaid) office can help people find out whether they qualify for Medicaid and can provide more information about Medicaid programs. A social worker can also explain a states Medicaid program and help a person apply.
                
To contact a state Medicaid office, people can
                
- search for Medicaid information for a state at www.medicaid.gov or call 18772672323  - search online or check the government pages of the phone book for the local department of human services or department of social services
                
CHIP gives free or low-cost Medicaid to children whose parents earn too much for Medicaid, though not enough to pay for a health plan. CHIP may also provide assistance to parents. CHIP is a federal and state program. Read more at www.insurekidsnow.gov or call 18775437669.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is the outlook for Familial Periodic Paralyses ?
Answer: The prognosis for the familial periodic paralyses varies. Chronic attacks may result in progressive weakness that persists between attacks. Some cases respond well to treatment, which can prevent or reverse progressive muscle weakness.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What causes Sleep Apnea ?
Answer: When you're awake, throat muscles help keep your airway stiff and open so air can flow into your lungs. When you sleep, these muscles relax, which narrows your throat.
                
Normally, this narrowing doesnt prevent air from flowing into and out of your lungs. But if you have sleep apnea, your airway can become partially or fully blocked because:
                
Your throat muscles and tongue relax more than normal.
                
Your tongue and tonsils (tissue masses in the back of your mouth) are large compared with the opening into your windpipe.
                
You're overweight. The extra soft fat tissue can thicken the wall of the windpipe. This narrows the inside of the windpipe, which makes it harder to keep open.
                
The shape of your head and neck (bony structure) may cause a smaller airway size in the mouth and throat area.
                
The aging process limits your brain signals' ability to keep your throat muscles stiff during sleep. Thus, your airway is more likely to narrow or collapse.
                
Not enough air flows into your lungs if your airway is partially or fully blocked during sleep. As a result, loud snoring and a drop in your blood oxygen level can occur.
                
If the oxygen drops to a dangerous level, it triggers your brain to disturb your sleep. This helps tighten the upper airway muscles and open your windpipe. Normal breathing then starts again, often with a loud snort or choking sound.
                
Frequent drops in your blood oxygen level and reduced sleep quality can trigger the release of stress hormones. These hormones raise your heart rate and increase your risk for high blood pressure, heart attack, stroke, and arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats). The hormones also can raise your risk for, or worsen, heart failure.
                
Untreated sleep apnea also can lead to changes in how your body uses energy. These changes increase your risk for obesity and diabetes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What is (are) Psoriasis ?
Answer: Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes itchy or sore patches of thick, red skin with silvery scales. You usually get the patches on your elbows, knees, scalp, back, face, palms and feet, but they can show up on other parts of your body. Some people who have psoriasis also get a form of arthritis called psoriatic arthritis.    A problem with your immune system causes psoriasis. In a process called cell turnover, skin cells that grow deep in your skin rise to the surface. Normally, this takes a month. In psoriasis, it happens in just days because your cells rise too fast.     Psoriasis can be hard to diagnose because it can look like other skin diseases. Your doctor might need to look at a small skin sample under a microscope.    Psoriasis can last a long time, even a lifetime. Symptoms come and go. Things that make them worse include       - Infections    - Stress    - Dry skin    - Certain medicines       Psoriasis usually occurs in adults. It sometimes runs in families. Treatments include creams, medicines, and light therapy.    NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome ?
Answer: Microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome is an inherited disorder characterized by an abnormally small head size (microcephaly) and abnormalities of small blood vessels in the skin called capillaries (capillary malformations).  In people with microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome, microcephaly begins before birth and is associated with an unusually small brain and multiple brain abnormalities. Affected individuals develop seizures that can occur many times per day and are difficult to treat (intractable epilepsy). The problems with brain development and epilepsy lead to profound developmental delay and intellectual impairment. Most affected individuals do not develop skills beyond those of a 1- or 2-month-old infant. For example, most children with this condition are never able to control their head movements or sit unassisted.  Capillary malformations are composed of enlarged capillaries that increase blood flow near the surface of the skin. These malformations look like pink or red spots on the skin. People with microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome are born with anywhere from a few to hundreds of these spots, which can occur anywhere on the body. The spots are usually round or oval-shaped and range in size from the head of a pin to a large coin.  Other signs and symptoms of microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome include abnormal movements, feeding difficulties, slow growth, and short stature. Most affected individuals have abnormalities of the fingers and toes, including digits with tapered ends and abnormally small or missing fingernails and toenails. Some affected children also have distinctive facial features and an unusual pattern of hair growth on the scalp.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency ?
Answer: Mutations in the SLC25A20 gene cause CACT deficiency. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase (CACT). This protein is essential for fatty acid oxidation, a multistep process that breaks down (metabolizes) fats and converts them into energy. Fatty acid oxidation takes place within mitochondria, which are the energy-producing centers in cells. A group of fats called long-chain fatty acids must be attached to a substance known as carnitine to enter mitochondria. Once these fatty acids are joined with carnitine, the CACT protein transports them into mitochondria. Fatty acids are a major source of energy for the heart and muscles. During periods of fasting, fatty acids are also an important energy source for the liver and other tissues.  Although mutations in the SLC25A20 gene change the structure of the CACT protein in different ways, they all lead to a shortage (deficiency) of the transporter. Without enough functional CACT protein, long-chain fatty acids cannot be transported into mitochondria. As a result, these fatty acids are not converted to energy. Reduced energy production can lead to some of the features of CACT deficiency, such as hypoketotic hypoglycemia. Fatty acids and long-chain acylcarnitines (fatty acids still attached to carnitine) may also build up in cells and damage the liver, heart, and muscles. This abnormal buildup causes the other signs and symptoms of the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurosyphilis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke supports and conducts research on neurodegenerative disorders, such as neurosyphilis, in an effort to find ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure these disorders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Is periventricular heterotopia inherited ?
Answer: Periventricular heterotopia can have different inheritance patterns. When this condition is caused by mutations in the FLNA gene, it is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern.  A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked periventricular heterotopia, males experience much more severe symptoms of the disorder than females, and in most cases die before birth.  In about 50 percent of cases of X-linked periventricular heterotopia, an affected person inherits the mutation from a mother who is also affected. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Periventricular heterotopia caused by mutations in the ARFGEF2 gene is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Individuals with periventricular heterotopia in whom ARFGEF2 gene mutations have been identified have a severe form of the disorder, including microcephaly, severe developmental delay, and seizures beginning in infancy. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Amyloidosis and Kidney Disease ?
Answer: A health care provider treats dialysis-related amyloidosis with
                
- medication therapy  - newer, more effective hemodialysis filters  - surgery  - a kidney transplant
                
The goal of medication therapy and the use of newer, more effective hemodialysis filters is to reduce amyloid protein levels in the blood. Medication therapy can help reduce symptoms such as pain and inflammation. A health care provider may treat a person with dialysis-related amyloidosis who has bone, joint, and tendon problems, such as bone cysts and carpal tunnel syndrome, using surgery.
                
Dialysis-related amyloidosis has no cure; however, a successful kidney transplant may stop the disease from progressing.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Transplantation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 7 ?
Answer: Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 7 (CLN7-NCL) is a rare condition that affects the nervous system. Signs and symptoms of the condition generally develop in early childhood (average age 5 years) and may include loss of muscle coordination (ataxia), seizures that do not respond to medications, muscle twitches (myoclonus), visual impairment, and developmental regression (the loss of previously acquired skills). CLN7-NCL is caused by changes (mutations) in the MFSD8 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment options are limited to therapies that can help relieve some of the symptoms.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Colorectal Cancer ?
Answer: How Tumors Form The body is made up of many types of cells. Normally, cells grow, divide, and produce more cells as needed to keep the body healthy and functioning properly. Sometimes, however, the process goes wrong -- cells become abnormal and form more cells in an uncontrolled way. These extra cells form a mass of tissue, called a growth or tumor. Tumors can be benign, which means not cancerous, or malignant, which means cancerous. How Colorectal Cancer Develops Cancer of the colon or rectum is called colorectal cancer. The colon and the rectum are part of the large intestine, which is part of the digestive system. Colorectal cancer occurs when tumors form in the lining of the large intestine, also called the large bowel. Colorectal cancer accounts for almost ten percent of all cancer deaths in the United States. The risk of developing colorectal cancer rises after age 50. It is common in both men and women. Colorectal Cancer Can Spread Sometimes, cancer cells break away from the malignant tumor and enter the bloodstream or the lymphatic system where they travel to other organs in the body. Among other things, the lymphatic system transports white blood cells that fight infection. When cancer travels or spreads from its original location in the colon to another part of the body such as the liver, it is called metastatic colorectal cancer and not liver cancer. When colorectal cancer does spread, it tends to spread to the liver or lungs. Cure Rate for Early Detection Today there are more ways than ever to treat colorectal cancer. As with almost all cancers, the earlier it is found, the more likely that the treatment will be successful. If colon cancer is detected in its early stages, it is up to 90 percent curable.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research relating to CRPS and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. NINDS-supported scientists are studying new approaches to treat CRPS and intervene more aggressively after traumatic injury to lower the chances of developing the disorder. Researchers hope to identify specific cellular and molecular changes in sensory neurons following peripheral nerve injury to better understand the processes that underlie neuroplasticity (the brains ability to reorganize or form new nerve connections and pathways following injury or death of nerve cells). Identifying these mechanisms could provide targets for new drug therapies that could improve recovery following regeneration. Other researchers hope to better understand how CRPS develops by studying immune system activation and peripheral nerve signaling using an animal model of the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Aortic arch anomaly - peculiar facies - intellectual disability ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Aortic arch anomaly - peculiar facies - intellectual disability? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Aortic arch anomaly - peculiar facies - intellectual disability. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Broad forehead 90% Carious teeth 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Convex nasal ridge 90% Downturned corners of mouth 90% Facial asymmetry 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Macrotia 90% Narrow mouth 90% Overriding aorta 90% Prominent nasal bridge 90% Triangular face 90% Arteriovenous malformation 50% Microcephaly 50% Abnormality of the hip bone 7.5% Behavioral abnormality 7.5% Genu varum 7.5% Hypoplasia of the zygomatic bone 7.5% Intrauterine growth retardation 7.5% Mandibular prognathia 7.5% Muscular hypotonia 7.5% Abnormal facial shape - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Intellectual disability - Right aortic arch with mirror image branching - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by van der Woude syndrome ?
Answer: Van der Woude syndrome is believed to occur in 1 in 35,000 to 1 in 100,000 people, based on data from Europe and Asia. Van der Woude syndrome is the most common cause of cleft lip and palate resulting from variations in a single gene, and this condition accounts for approximately 1 in 50 such cases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to 7q11.23 duplication syndrome ?
Answer: 7q11.23 duplication syndrome results from an extra copy of a region on the long (q) arm of chromosome 7 in each cell. This region is called the Williams-Beuren syndrome critical region (WBSCR) because its deletion causes a different disorder called Williams syndrome, also known as Williams-Beuren syndrome. The region, which is 1.5 to 1.8 million DNA base pairs (Mb) in length, includes 26 to 28 genes.  Extra copies of several of the genes in the duplicated region, including the ELN and GTF2I genes, likely contribute to the characteristic features of 7q11.23 duplication syndrome. Researchers suggest that an extra copy of the ELN gene in each cell may be related to the increased risk for aortic dilatation in 7q11.23 duplication syndrome. Studies suggest that an extra copy of the GTF2I gene may be associated with some of the behavioral features of the disorder. However, the specific causes of these features are unclear.  Researchers are studying additional genes in the duplicated region, but none have been definitely linked to any of the specific signs or symptoms of 7q11.23 duplication syndrome.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to narcolepsy ?
Answer: Narcolepsy probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors, some of which have been identified, but many of which remain unknown.  In most cases of narcolepsy with cataplexy, and in some cases without cataplexy, sleep abnormalities result from a loss of particular brain cells (neurons) in a part of the brain called the hypothalamus. These cells normally produce chemicals called hypocretins (also known as orexins), which have many important functions in the body. In particular, hypocretins regulate the daily sleep-wake cycle. It is unclear what triggers the death of hypocretin-producing neurons in people with narcolepsy, although evidence increasingly points to an abnormality of the immune system.  Researchers have identified changes in several genes that influence the risk of developing narcolepsy. The most well-studied of these genes is HLA-DQB1, which provides instructions for making part of a protein that plays an important role in the immune system. The HLA-DQB1 gene is part of a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The HLA complex helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). The HLA-DQB1 gene has many different normal variations, allowing each person's immune system to react to a wide range of foreign proteins. A variation of the HLA-DQB1 gene called HLA-DQB1*06:02 has been strongly associated with narcolepsy, particularly in people who also have cataplexy and a loss of hypocretins. Most people with narcolepsy have the HLA-DQB1*06:02 variation, and many also have specific versions of other, closely related HLA genes. It is unclear how these genetic changes influence the risk of developing the condition.  Variations in several additional genes have also been associated with narcolepsy. Many of these genes are thought to play roles in immune system function. However, variations in these genes probably make only a small contribution to the overall risk of developing narcolepsy. Other genetic and environmental factors are also likely to influence a person's chances of developing this disorder. For example, studies suggest that bacterial or viral infections such as strep throat (streptococcus), colds, and influenza may be involved in triggering narcolepsy in people who are at risk.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Granuloma annulare ?
Answer: How might granuloma annulare be treated? Granuloma annulare is difficult to treat and there are a limited number of clinical trials to reliably inform patients and physicians of the treatment options. Fortunately, most lesions of granuloma annulare disappear with no treatment within two years. Sometimes, however, the rings can remain for many years. Very strong topical steroid creams or ointments may be used to speed the disappearance of the lesions. Injections of steroids directly into the rings may also be effective. Some physicians may choose to freeze the lesions with liquid nitrogen. In severe cases, ultraviolet light therapy (PUVA) or oral medications may be needed. Other treatments that have been tried include :   Dapsone (a type of antibiotic) for widespread granuloma annulare  Isotretinoin  Etretinate (not available in the US)  Hydroxychloroquine  Chloroquine  Cyclosporine  Niacinamide  Oral psoralen  Vitamin E combined with a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor  Fumaric acid esters  Topical tacrolimus  Pimecrolimus  Infliximab (in a patient with disseminated granuloma annulare that did not respond to other treatments) A review article titled, 'Diagnosis and Management of Granuloma Annulare' provides additional information on treatment options for granuloma annulare: http://www.aafp.org/afp/20061115/1729.html  Also, an article from Medscape Reference provides information on treatment for granuloma annulare at the following link. You may need to register to view the article, but registration is free. http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1123031-overview
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Brown-Sequard syndrome ?
Answer: How might Brown-Sequard syndrome be treated?
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Hemochromatosis? ?
Answer: Hemochromatosis is one of the most common genetic diseases in the United States. It's most common in Caucasians of Northern European descent. The disease is less common in African Americans, Hispanics, Asians, and American Indians.
                
Primary hemochromatosis is more common in men than in women. Also, older people are more likely to develop the disease than younger people. In fact, signs and symptoms usually don't occur in men until they're 40 to 60 years old.
                
In women, signs and symptoms usually don't occur until after the age of 50 (after menopause). Young children rarely develop hemochromatosis.
                
Inheriting two faulty HFE genes (one from each parent) is the major risk factor for hemochromatosis. However, many people who have two copies of the faulty gene don't develop signs or symptoms of the disease.
                
Alcoholism is another risk factor for hemochromatosis. A family history of certain diseases and conditions also puts you at higher risk for hemochromatosis. Examples of such diseases and conditions include heart attack, liver disease, diabetes, arthritis, and erectile dysfunction (impotence).
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Problems with Smell ?
Answer: Relief is Possible Although there is no treatment for presbyosmia -- loss of smell due to aging -- relief from smell disorders is possible for many older people. Depending on the cause of your problem with smell, your doctor may be able to treat it or suggest ways to cope with it. Recovering the Ability To Smell Some people recover their ability to smell when they recover from the illness causing their loss of smell. Some people recover their sense of smell spontaneously, for no obvious reason. Other common causes of smell loss, such as the common cold or seasonal allergies, are usually temporary. Smell is regained by waiting for the illness to run its course. In some cases, nasal obstructions, such as polyps, can be removed to restore airflow through the nasal passages and restore the sense of smell. If your smell disorder cant be successfully treated, you might want to seek counseling to help you adjust. Ask About Your Medications Sometimes a certain medication causes a smell disorder, and improvement occurs when the medicine causing the problem is stopped or changed. If you take medications, ask your doctor if they can affect your sense of smell. If so, ask if you could substitute other medications or reduce the dose. Your doctor will work with you to get the medicine you need while trying to reduce unwanted side effects. Medications That May Help Your doctor may suggest oral steroid medications such as prednisone, which is usually used for a short period of time, or topical steroid sprays, which can be used for longer periods of time. Antibiotics are also used to treat nasal infections. The effectiveness of both steroids and antibiotics depends greatly on the severity and duration of the nasal swelling or infection. Often relief is temporary. Occasionally, the sense of smell returns to normal on its own without any treatment. Steps You Can Take If you have a problem with smell, there are some things you can do. - Wait it out. If you have had a cold with a stuffy nose, chances are in a few days your sense of smell will return. However, you should not wait to see your doctor if you think something more serious has caused your loss of smell or you have had the problem for a while. Loss of smell can sometimes mean a more serious condition exists.  Wait it out. If you have had a cold with a stuffy nose, chances are in a few days your sense of smell will return. However, you should not wait to see your doctor if you think something more serious has caused your loss of smell or you have had the problem for a while. Loss of smell can sometimes mean a more serious condition exists. - Sweat it out. If your nose is stuffed up from a cold, sometimes mild exercise or the steam from a hot shower may open up your nasal passages. Sweat it out. If your nose is stuffed up from a cold, sometimes mild exercise or the steam from a hot shower may open up your nasal passages. - Stop smoking. Smoking causes long-term damage to your sense of smell. If you quit smoking, you may notice some improvement. To get free help quitting, visit  www.Smokefree.gov Stop smoking. Smoking causes long-term damage to your sense of smell. If you quit smoking, you may notice some improvement. To get free help quitting, visit  www.Smokefree.gov - Check with your doctor. If your sense of smell seems to have disappeared or changed, or if you've noticed the problem for a while, see your doctor for help. Sometimes, especially with a sinus infection, taking antibiotics for a short period of time may remedy the problem. If there is a blockage or you have a chronic sinus condition, outpatient surgery may be called for.  Check with your doctor. If your sense of smell seems to have disappeared or changed, or if you've noticed the problem for a while, see your doctor for help. Sometimes, especially with a sinus infection, taking antibiotics for a short period of time may remedy the problem. If there is a blockage or you have a chronic sinus condition, outpatient surgery may be called for. If Your Smell Loss Is Permanent If you do not regain your sense of smell, there are things you should do to ensure your safety. Take extra precautions to avoid eating food that may have spoiled. If you live with other people, ask them to smell the food to make sure it is fresh. People who live alone should discard food if there is a chance it is spoiled. Other home safety measures include installing smoke alarms and gas detectors. For those who wish to have additional help, there may be support groups in your area. These are often associated with smell and taste clinics in medical school hospitals. Some online bulletin boards also allow people with smell disorders to share their experiences. Not all people with smell disorders will regain their sense of smell, but most can learn to live with it. Ongoing Research The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) supports basic and clinical investigations of smell and taste disorders at its laboratories in Bethesda, Md. and at universities and chemosensory research centers across the country. These chemosensory scientists are exploring how to -  promote the regeneration of sensory nerve cells   - understand the effects of the environment (such as gasoline fumes, chemicals, and extremes of humidity and temperature) on smell and taste   - prevent the effects of aging on smell and taste   - develop new diagnostic tests for taste and smell disorders   - understand associations between smell disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses.  promote the regeneration of sensory nerve cells understand the effects of the environment (such as gasoline fumes, chemicals, and extremes of humidity and temperature) on smell and taste prevent the effects of aging on smell and taste develop new diagnostic tests for taste and smell disorders understand associations between smell disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) Miscarriage ?
Answer: A miscarriage is the loss of pregnancy from natural causes before the 20th week of pregnancy. Most miscarriages occur very early in the pregnancy, often before a woman even knows she is pregnant. There are many different causes for a miscarriage. In most cases, there is nothing you can do to prevent a miscarriage.    Factors that may contribute to miscarriage include       - A genetic problem with the fetus. This is the most common cause in the first trimester.    - Problems with the uterus or cervix. These contribute in the second trimester.    - Polycystic ovary syndrome       Signs of a miscarriage can include vaginal spotting or bleeding, abdominal pain or cramping, and fluid or tissue passing from the vagina. Although vaginal bleeding is a common symptom of miscarriage, many women have spotting early in their pregnancy but do not miscarry. But if you are pregnant and have bleeding or spotting, contact your health care provider immediately.    Women who miscarry early in their pregnancy usually do not need any treatment. In some cases, you may need a procedure called a dilatation and curettage (D&C) to remove tissue remaining in the uterus.    Counseling may help you cope with your grief. Later, if you do decide to try again, work closely with your health care provider to lower the risks. Many women who have a miscarriage go on to have healthy babies.    NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is Warsaw breakage syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anemia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blindness - Carious teeth - Chronic rhinitis due to narrow nasal airway - Cranial hyperostosis - Diaphyseal sclerosis - Extramedullary hematopoiesis - Facial paralysis - Genu valgum - Hepatosplenomegaly - Mandibular osteomyelitis - Mandibular prognathia - Optic atrophy - Osteopetrosis - Pancytopenia - Persistence of primary teeth - Recurrent fractures - Thrombocytopenia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Laing distal myopathy ?
Answer: Mutations in the MYH7 gene cause Laing distal myopathy. The MYH7 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is found in heart (cardiac) muscle and in type I skeletal muscle fibers. Type I fibers, which are also known as slow-twitch fibers, are one of two types of fibers that make up skeletal muscles. Type I fibers are the primary component of skeletal muscles that are resistant to fatigue. For example, muscles involved in posture, such as the neck muscles that hold the head steady, are made predominantly of type I fibers.  In cardiac and skeletal muscle cells, the protein produced from the MYH7 gene forms part of a larger protein called type II myosin. This type of myosin generates the mechanical force that is needed for muscles to contract. In the heart, regular contractions of cardiac muscle pump blood to the rest of the body. The coordinated contraction and relaxation of skeletal muscles allow the body to move.  It is unknown how mutations in the MYH7 gene cause progressive muscle weakness in people with Laing distal myopathy. Researchers have proposed that these mutations alter the structure of myosin in skeletal muscles, which prevents it from interacting with other proteins. The abnormal myosin gradually impairs the function of type I skeletal muscle fibers.  In most people with Laing distal myopathy, the signs and symptoms of the disorder are limited to weakness of skeletal muscles. Although myosin made with the MYH7 protein is also found in cardiac muscle, it is unclear why heart problems are not a typical feature of this condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is congenital central hypoventilation syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  More than 90 percent of cases of CCHS result from new mutations in the PHOX2B gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Occasionally an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The number of such cases has been increasing as better treatment has allowed more affected individuals to live into adulthood.  About 5 to 10 percent of affected individuals inherit the mutation from a seemingly unaffected parent with somatic mosaicism. Somatic mosaicism means that some of the body's cells have a PHOX2B gene mutation, and others do not. A parent with mosaicism for a PHOX2B gene mutation may not show any signs or symptoms of CCHS.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Do you have information about Blood
Answer: Summary : Your blood is living tissue made up of liquid and solids. The liquid part, called plasma, is made of water, salts, and protein. Over half of your blood is plasma. The solid part of your blood contains red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.    Red blood cells (RBC) deliver oxygen from your lungs to your tissues and organs. White blood cells (WBC) fight infection and are part of your body's defense system. Platelets help blood to clot when you have a cut or wound. Bone marrow, the spongy material inside your bones, makes new blood cells. Blood cells constantly die and your body makes new ones. Red blood cells live about 120 days, and platelets live about 6 days. Some white blood cells live less than a day, but others live much longer.    Blood tests show whether the levels of substances in your blood are within a normal range. They help doctors check for certain diseases and conditions. They also help check the function of your organs and show how well treatments are working.Some of the most common blood tests are blood count tests, which measure the number, size, and shape of cells and platelets in the blood.    Problems with your blood may include bleeding disorders, excessive clotting and platelet disorders. If you lose too much blood, you may need a transfusion.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What causes What I need to know about My Child's Urinary Tract Infection ?
Answer: Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live in the bowel, the part of the digestive tract where stool is changed from liquid to solid. The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli) causes most UTIs. The urinary tract has several systems to prevent infection. The points where the ureters attach to the bladder act like one-way valves to prevent urine from backing up, or refluxing, toward the kidneys, and urination washes microbes out of the body. The bodys natural defenses also prevent infection. But despite these safeguards, infections still occur.
                
Other factors that may cause a child to get a UTI include the following:
                
- Waiting to urinate. Regular urination helps flush away bacteria. Holding urine allows bacteria to grow.  - Making too little urine. A child that doesnt drink enough fluids may not make enough urine to flush away bacteria.  - Constipation. Constipation is a condition in which a child has fewer than two bowel movements a week. Stools can be hard, dry, small, and difficult to pass. The hard stool in the bowel may press against the urinary tract and block the flow of urine, allowing bacteria to grow.
                
Some children are just more prone to UTIs than others, just as some children are more prone to getting coughs, colds, or ear infections.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) arterial tortuosity syndrome ?
Answer: Arterial tortuosity syndrome is a disorder that affects connective tissue. Connective tissue provides strength and flexibility to structures throughout the body, including blood vessels, skin, joints, and the gastrointestinal tract.  As its name suggests, arterial tortuosity syndrome is characterized by blood vessel abnormalities, particularly abnormal twists and turns (tortuosity) of the blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body (the arteries). Tortuosity arises from abnormal elongation of the arteries; since the end points of the arteries are fixed, the extra length twists and curves. Other blood vessel abnormalities that may occur in this disorder include constriction (stenosis) and abnormal bulging (aneurysm) of vessels, as well as small clusters of enlarged blood vessels just under the skin (telangiectasia).  Complications resulting from the abnormal arteries can be life-threatening. Rupture of an aneurysm or sudden tearing (dissection) of the layers in an arterial wall can result in massive loss of blood from the circulatory system. Blockage of blood flow to vital organs such as the heart, lungs, or brain can lead to heart attacks, respiratory problems, and strokes. Stenosis of the arteries forces the heart to work harder to pump blood and may lead to heart failure. As a result of these complications, arterial tortuosity syndrome is often fatal in childhood, although some individuals with mild cases of the disorder live into adulthood.  Features of arterial tortuosity syndrome outside the circulatory system are caused by abnormal connective tissue in other parts of the body. These features include joints that are either loose and very flexible (hypermobile) or that have deformities limiting movement (contractures), and unusually soft and stretchable skin. Some affected individuals have long, slender fingers and toes (arachnodactyly); curvature of the spine (scoliosis); or a chest that is either sunken (pectus excavatum) or protruding (pectus carinatum). They may have protrusion of organs through gaps in muscles (hernias), elongation of the intestines, or pouches called diverticula in the intestinal walls.  People with arterial tortuosity syndrome often look older than their age and have distinctive facial features including a long, narrow face with droopy cheeks; eye openings that are narrowed (blepharophimosis) with outside corners that point downward (downslanting palpebral fissures); a beaked nose with soft cartilage; a high, arched roof of the mouth (palate); a small lower jaw (micrognathia); and large ears. The cornea, which is the clear front covering of the eye, may be cone-shaped and abnormally thin (keratoconus).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Erythromelalgia ?
Answer: Erythromelalgia (EM) is a rare condition characterized by episodes of burning pain, warmth, swelling and redness in parts of the body, particularly the hands and feet. This condition may occur spontaneously (primary EM) or secondary to neurological diseases, autoimmune diseases, or myeloproliferative disorders (secondary EM). Episodes may be triggered by increased body temperature, alcohol, and eating spicy foods. About 15% of cases are caused by mutations in the SCN9A gene and are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Other cases may be caused by unidentified genes or by non-genetic factors. Treatment depends on the underlying cause and may include topical and/or oral medications. In some cases, the condition goes away without treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome ?
Answer: ALPS is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. More than 200 affected individuals have been identified worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ?
Answer: How might amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) be treated? The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the first drug treatment for the diseaseriluzole (Rilutek). Riluzole is believed to reduce damage to motor neurons by decreasing the release of glutamate. Clinical trials with ALS patients showed that riluzole prolongs survival by several months, mainly in those with difficulty swallowing. The drug also extends the time before a patient needs ventilation support. Riluzole does not reverse the damage already done to motor neurons, and patients taking the drug must be monitored for liver damage and other possible side effects. Other treatments for ALS are designed to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life for patients (palliative care). This supportive care is typically provided by multidisciplinary teams of health care professionals such as physicians; pharmacists; physical, occupational, and speech therapists; nutritionists; social workers; and home care and hospice nurses. Working with patients and caregivers, these teams can design an individualized plan of medical and physical therapy and provide special equipment aimed at keeping patients as mobile and comfortable as possible.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Multiple myeloma ?
Answer: What causes multiple myeloma? Although the exact underlying cause of multiple myeloma is poorly understood, the specific symptoms of the condition result from abnormal and excessive growth of plasma cells in the bone marrow. Plasma cells help the body fight infection by producing proteins called antibodies. In people with multiple myeloma, excess plasma cells form tumors in the bone, causing bones to become weak and easily broken. The abnormal growth of plasma cells also makes it more difficult for the bone marrow to make healthy blood cells and platelets. The plasma cells produced in multiple myeloma produce abnormal antibodies that the immune system is unable to use. These abnormal antibodies build up in the body and cause a variety of problems. Factors that are associated with an increased risk of developing multiple myeloma include increasing age, male sex, African American race, radiation exposure, a family history of the condition, obesity, and/or a personal history of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Irritable Bowel Syndrome ?
Answer: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a problem that affects the large intestine. It can cause abdominal cramping, bloating, and a change in bowel habits. Some people with the disorder have constipation. Some have diarrhea. Others go back and forth between the two. Although IBS can cause a great deal of discomfort, it does not harm the intestines.    IBS is common. It affects about twice as many women as men and is most often found in people younger than 45 years. No one knows the exact cause of IBS. There is no specific test for it. Your doctor may run tests to be sure you don't have other diseases. These tests may include stool sampling tests, blood tests, and x-rays. Your doctor may also do a test called a sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. Most people diagnosed with IBS can control their symptoms with diet, stress management, probiotics, and medicine.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: Is platyspondylic lethal skeletal dysplasia, Torrance type inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Troyer Syndrome ?
Answer: Prognosis varies, although the disease is progressive. Some patients may have a mild form of the disease while others eventually lose the ability to walk normally. Troyer syndrome does not shorten the normal life span.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How to diagnose Hemoglobin E disease ?
Answer: How is hemoglobin E disease diagnosed? Many babies are picked up through state newborn screening programs. A diagnosis is usually made by looking at the red blood cells by doing a Mean Corpuscular Volume (MCV) test, which is commonly part of a Complete Blood Count (CBC) test. More specialized tests, such as a hemoglobin electrophoresis and iron studies might be done. These tests indicate whether a person has different types of hemoglobin. Genetic testing of the HBB gene can also be done to confirm a diagnosis.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Diabetic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Diabetic kidney disease, also called diabetic nephropathy, is kidney disease caused by diabetes.  - People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia.  - At the onset of diabetes, blood flow into the kidneys increases, which may strain the glomeruli and lessen their ability to filter blood.  - Higher levels of blood glucose lead to the buildup of extra material in the glomeruli, which increases the force of the blood moving through the kidneys and creates stress in the glomeruli.  - Many people with diabetes can develop high blood pressure, another factor in the development of kidney disease. High blood pressure, also called hypertension, is an increase in the amount of force that blood places on blood vessels as it moves through the entire body.  - Diabetic kidney disease takes many years to develop.  - People with diabetic kidney disease do not have any symptoms in the early stages. As kidney disease progresses, a person can develop edema, or swelling. Edema happens when the kidneys cannot get rid of the extra fluid and salt in the body. Edema can occur in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face.  - Once kidney function decreases further, symptoms may include      - appetite loss    - nausea    - vomiting    - drowsiness, or feeling tired    - trouble concentrating    - sleep problems    - increased or decreased urination    - generalized itching or numbness    - dry skin    - headaches    - weight loss    - darkened skin    - muscle cramps    - shortness of breath    - chest pain    - People can prevent or slow the progression of diabetic kidney disease by      - taking medication to control high blood pressure    - managing blood glucose levels    - making changes in their eating, diet, and nutrition    - losing weight if they are overweight or obese    - getting regular physical activity
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Parsonage Turner syndrome ?
Answer: Parsonage Turner syndrome is characterized by the sudden onset of shoulder and upper arm pain followed by progressive (worsening over time) weakness and/or atrophy of the affected area. Although the exact cause is unknown, researchers believe that most cases are due to an autoimmune response following exposure to an illness or environmental factor. Suspected triggers include viral and bacterial infections; surgery; vaccinations; injury; childbirth; strenuous exercise; certain medical procedures; and various health conditions. Treatment is symptomatic and may include pain relievers and physical therapy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type ?
Answer: How might Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type be treated? The treatment and management of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), vascular type is focused on relieving associated signs and symptoms and preventing serious complications. For example, people with EDS, vascular type have tissue fragility that puts them at high risk for rupture of arteries, muscles and internal organs. It is, therefore, important to seek immediate medical attention for any sudden, unexplained pain as emergency surgery may be indicated. Pregnant women with EDS, vascular type should be followed by a maternal-fetal specialists at a high-risk perinatal center. Periodic screening may be recommended to diagnose aneurysms or other problems that may not be associated with obvious symptoms. People with the EDS, vascular type should also minimize risk of injury by avoiding contact sports, heavy lifting, and weight training. Elective surgery is also discouraged. GeneReview's Web site offers more specific information about the treatment and management of EDS, vascular type. Please click on the link to access this resource. Please speak to your healthcare provider if you have any questions about your personal medical management plan.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Coffin-Siris syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Coffin-Siris syndrome appears to follow an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, the condition is not usually inherited from an affected parent, but occurs from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that likely occur during early embryonic development.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by alkaptonuria ?
Answer: This condition is rare, affecting 1 in 250,000 to 1 million people worldwide. Alkaptonuria is more common in certain areas of Slovakia (where it has an incidence of about 1 in 19,000 people) and in the Dominican Republic.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus ?
Answer: Between 1 in 215,000 and 1 in 400,000 babies are born with diabetes mellitus. In about half of these babies, the diabetes is transient. Researchers estimate that approximately 70 percent of transient diabetes in newborns is caused by 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome/dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis ?
Answer: Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome/dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis (NFJS/DPR) represents a rare type of ectodermal dysplasia, a group of about 150 conditions characterized by abnormal development of ectodermal tissues including the skin, hair, nails, teeth, and sweat glands. NFJS and DPR were originally described as separate conditions; however, because they have similar features and are caused by mutations in the same gene, they are now often considered forms of the same disorder.  Among the most common signs of NFJS/DPR is a net-like pattern of dark brown or gray skin coloring, known as reticulate hyperpigmentation. This darker pigmentation is seen most often on the neck, chest, and abdomen, although it can also occur in and around the eyes and mouth. Reticulate hyperpigmentation appears in infancy or early childhood. It may fade with age or persist throughout life.  NFJS/DPR also affects the skin on the hands and feet. The skin on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet often becomes thick, hard, and callused, a condition known as palmoplantar keratoderma. Some affected individuals also have blistering on their palms and soles. Their fingernails and toenails may be malformed, brittle, and either thicker or thinner than usual. Most affected individuals are missing the patterned ridges on the skin of the hands and feet, called dermatoglyphs, that are the basis for each person's unique fingerprints.  Additional features of NFJS/DPR can include a reduced ability to sweat (hypohidrosis) or excess sweating (hyperhidrosis) and dental abnormalities. Some affected individuals also have hair loss (alopecia) on the scalp, eyebrows, and underarms. The alopecia is described as noncicatricial because it does not leave scars (cicatrices).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Chronic Neutrophilic Leukemia ?
Answer: Chronic neutrophilic leukemia is a disease in which too many blood stem cells become a type of white blood cell called neutrophils. Neutrophils are infection -fighting blood cells that surround and destroy dead cells and foreign substances (such as bacteria). The spleen and liver may swell because of the extra neutrophils. Chronic neutrophilic leukemia may stay the same or it may progress quickly to acute leukemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What are the genetic changes related to methylmalonic acidemia ?
Answer: Mutations in the MUT, MMAA, MMAB, MMADHC, and MCEE genes cause methylmalonic acidemia. The long term effects of methylmalonic acidemia depend on which gene is mutated and the severity of the mutation.  About 60 percent of methylmalonic acidemia cases are caused by mutations in the MUT gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called methylmalonyl CoA mutase. This enzyme works with vitamin B12 (also called cobalamin) to break down several protein building blocks (amino acids), certain lipids, and cholesterol. Mutations in the MUT gene alter the enzyme's structure or reduce the amount of the enzyme, which prevents these molecules from being broken down properly. As a result, a substance called methylmalonyl CoA and other potentially toxic compounds can accumulate in the body's organs and tissues, causing the signs and symptoms of methylmalonic acidemia.  Mutations in the MUT gene that prevent the production of any functional enzyme result in a form of the condition designated mut0. Mut0 is the most severe form of methylmalonic acidemia and has the poorest outcome. Mutations that change the structure of methylmalonyl CoA mutase but do not eliminate its activity cause a form of the condition designated mut-. The mut- form is typically less severe, with more variable symptoms than the mut0 form.  Some cases of methylmalonic acidemia are caused by mutations in the MMAA, MMAB, or MMADHC gene. Proteins produced from the MMAA, MMAB, and MMADHC genes are needed for the proper function of methylmalonyl CoA mutase. Mutations that affect proteins produced from these three genes can impair the activity of methylmalonyl CoA mutase, leading to methylmalonic acidemia.  A few other cases of methylmalonic acidemia are caused by mutations in the MCEE gene. This gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme called methylmalonyl CoA epimerase. Like methylmalonyl CoA mutase, this enzyme also plays a role in the breakdown of amino acids, certain lipids, and cholesterol. Disruption in the function of methylmalonyl CoA epimerase leads to a mild form of methylmalonic acidemia.  It is likely that mutations in other, unidentified genes also cause methylmalonic acidemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) neuroferritinopathy ?
Answer: Neuroferritinopathy is a disorder in which iron gradually accumulates in the brain. Certain brain regions that help control movement (basal ganglia) are particularly affected. People with neuroferritinopathy have progressive problems with movement that begin at about age 40. These movement problems can include involuntary jerking motions (chorea), rhythmic shaking (tremor), difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia), or uncontrolled tensing of muscles (dystonia). Symptoms of the disorder may be more apparent on one side of the body than on the other. Affected individuals may also have difficulty swallowing (dysphagia) and speaking (dysarthria).  Intelligence is unaffected in most people with neuroferritinopathy, but some individuals develop a gradual decline in thinking and reasoning abilities (dementia). Personality changes such as reduced inhibitions and difficulty controlling emotions may also occur as the disorder progresses.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is MTHFR gene mutation inherited ?
Answer: How is a MTHFR gene mutation inherited? Because each person has two copies of the MTHFR gene, people can inherit one copy of the MTHFR mutation or two copies (one from each parent). People who inherit two copies of a common MTHFR gene mutation (for example two C677T mutations or a C677T mutation and a A1298C mutation) may have an increased risk for certain conditions such as coronary artery disease, blood clots, and stroke when compared to those without the mutations and elevated homocystine levels. Coronary artery disease, blood clots, and stroke are all complex conditions and are caused by a combination of many genetic and environmental factors. Some rare MTHFR gene mutations can lead to homocystinuria, which is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Visit our "Homocystinuria due to MTHFR deficiency" webpage.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Total Hypotrichosis, Mari type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Total Hypotrichosis, Mari type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Total Hypotrichosis, Mari type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Woolly hair 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hypotrichosis - Sparse eyebrow - Sparse eyelashes - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is atelosteogenesis type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Almost all cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Prolactinoma ?
Answer: In some people, high blood levels of prolactin can be traced to causes other than prolactinoma.
                
Prescription drugs. Prolactin secretion in the pituitary is normally suppressed by the brain chemical dopamine. Drugs that block the effects of dopamine at the pituitary or deplete dopamine stores in the brain may cause the pituitary to secrete prolactin. These drugs include older antipsychotic medications such as trifluoperazine (Stelazine) and haloperidol (Haldol); the newer antipsychotic drugs risperidone (Risperdal) and molindone (Moban); metoclopramide (Reglan), used to treat gastroesophageal reflux and the nausea caused by certain cancer drugs; and less often, verapamil, alpha-methyldopa (Aldochlor, Aldoril), and reserpine (Serpalan, Serpasil), used to control high blood pressure. Some antidepressants may cause hyperprolactinemia, but further research is needed.
                
Other pituitary tumors. Other tumors arising in or near the pituitary may block the flow of dopamine from the brain to the prolactin-secreting cells. Such tumors include those that cause acromegaly, a condition caused by too much growth hormone, and Cushing's syndrome, caused by too much cortisol. Other pituitary tumors that do not result in excess hormone production may also block the flow of dopamine.
                
Hypothyroidism. Increased prolactin levels are often seen in people with hypothyroidism, a condition in which the thyroid does not produce enough thyroid hormone. Doctors routinely test people with hyperprolactinemia for hypothyroidism.
                
Chest involvement. Nipple stimulation also can cause a modest increase in the amount of prolactin in the blood. Similarly, chest wall injury or shingles involving the chest wall may also cause hyperprolactinemia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How to diagnose Cramp-fasciculation syndrome ?
Answer: How is cramp-fasciculation syndrome diagnosed?  A diagnosis of cramp-fasciculation syndrome is generally based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. Namely, a history of frequent muscle cramps, twitching, and pain (often worsened by exercise) without muscle weakness or wasting is suggestive of the condition. It is also important to rule out other conditions that may cause similar features. Electromyography (EMG) or repetitive nerve stimulation studies may also be done to assess the health of muscles and the nerves that control them. In repetitive nerve stimulation studies, muscle responses are recorded when the nerves are repetitively stimulated by small pulses of electricity.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Sickle Cell Disease ?
Answer: Abnormal hemoglobin, called hemoglobin S, causes sickle cell disease (SCD).
                
The problem in hemoglobin S is caused by a small defect in the gene that directs the production of the beta globin part of hemoglobin. This small defect in the beta globin gene causes a problem in the beta globin part of hemoglobin, changing the way that hemoglobin works. (See Overview.)
                

                
How Is Sickle Cell Disease Inherited?
                
When the hemoglobin S gene is inherited from only one parent and a normal hemoglobin gene is inherited from the other, a person will have sickle cell trait. People with sickle cell trait are generally healthy.
                
Only rarely do people with sickle cell trait have complications similar to those seen in people with SCD. But people with sickle cell trait are carriers of a defective hemoglobin S gene. So, they can pass it on when they have a child.
                
If the childs other parent also has sickle cell trait or another abnormal hemoglobin gene (like thalassemia, hemoglobin C, hemoglobin D, hemoglobin E), that child has a chance of having SCD.
                
Example of an Inheritance Pattern
                

                
In the image above, each parent has one hemoglobin A gene and one hemoglobin S gene, and each of their children has:
                
A 25 percent chance of inheriting two normal genes: In this case the child does not have sickle cell trait or disease. (Case 1)
                
A 50 percent chance of inheriting one hemoglobin A gene and one hemoglobin S gene: This child has sickle cell trait. (Cases 2 and 3)
                
A 25 percent chance of inheriting two hemoglobin S genes: This child has sickle cell disease. (Case 4)
                
It is important to keep in mind that each time this couple has a child, the chances of that child having sickle cell disease remain the same. In other words, if the first-born child has sickle cell disease, there is still a 25 percent chance that the second child will also have the disease. Both boys and girls can inherit sickle cell trait, sickle cell disease, or normal hemoglobin.
                
If a person wants to know if he or she carries a sickle hemoglobin gene, a doctor can order a blood test to find out.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: How many people are affected by alveolar capillary dysplasia with misalignment of pulmonary veins ?
Answer: ACD/MPV is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown. Approximately 200 infants with this disorder have been identified worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Pineal cyst ?
Answer: What causes pineal cysts? The exact cause of pineal cysts is unknown. However, some studies suggest that bleeding in the pineal region or hormonal influences may play a role in the development and progression of pineal cysts.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by alpha thalassemia X-linked intellectual disability syndrome ?
Answer: Alpha thalassemia X-linked intellectual disability syndrome appears to be a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown. More than 200 affected individuals have been reported.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Childbirth ?
Answer: When you are ready to have your baby, you'll go through labor. Contractions let you know labor is starting. When contractions are five minutes apart, your body is ready to push the baby out.    During the first stage of labor, your cervix slowly opens, or dilates, to about 4 inches wide. At the same time, it becomes thinner. This is called effacement. You shouldn't push until your uterus is fully effaced and dilated. When it is, the baby delivery stage starts. Crowning is when your baby's scalp comes into view. Shortly afterward, your baby is born. The placenta that nourished the baby follows.    Mothers and babies are monitored closely during labor. Most women are healthy enough to have a baby through normal vaginal delivery, meaning that the baby comes down the birth canal without surgery. If there are complications, the baby may need to be delivered surgically by a Cesarean section.     Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal dominant type 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteopetrosis autosomal dominant type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteopetrosis autosomal dominant type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology - Abnormality of the vertebral column - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Conductive hearing impairment - Generalized osteosclerosis - Headache - Osteopetrosis - Thickened calvaria - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Arrhythmia - Asymmetric septal hypertrophy - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Congestive heart failure - Subaortic stenosis - Sudden death - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 ?
Answer: The worldwide prevalence of SCA6 is estimated to be less than 1 in 100,000 individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Moyamoya Disease ?
Answer: Moyamoya disease is a rare, progressive cerebrovascular disorder caused by blocked arteries at the base of the brain in an area called the basal ganglia. The name moyamoya means puff of smoke in Japanese and describes the look of the tangle of tiny vessels formed to compensate for the blockage. Moyamoya disease was first described in Japan in the 1960s and it has since been found in individuals in the other countries around the world; its incidence is higher in Asian countries than in Europe or North America. The disease primarily affects children, but it can also occur in adults. In children, the first symptom of Moyamoya disease is often stroke, or recurrent transient ischemic attacks (TIA, commonly referred to as mini-strokes), frequently accompanied by muscular weakness or paralysis affecting one side of the body, or seizures. Adults may also experience these symptoms that arise from blocked arteries, but more often experience a hemorrhagic stroke due to bleeding into the brain from the abnormal brain vessels. Individuals with this disorder may have disturbed consciousness, problems with speaking and understanding speech, sensory and cognitive impairments, involuntary movements, and vision problems.About one in 10 individuals with Moyamoya disease has a close relative who is also affected; in these cases researchers think that Moyamoya disease is the result of inherited genetic abnormalities.Studies that look for the abnormal gene(s) may help reveal the biomechanisms that cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism, and neuropathy ?
Answer: A mutation in the CTDP1 gene causes CCFDN. The CTDP1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called carboxy-terminal domain phosphatase 1. This protein helps regulate the process of transcription, which is a key step in using the information carried by genes to direct the production (synthesis) of proteins.  All known individuals with CCFDN have the same mutation in both copies of the CTDP1 gene in each cell. This mutation alters the way the gene's instructions are pieced together to produce the carboxy-terminal domain phosphatase 1 protein. The altered instructions introduce a premature stop signal, resulting in an abnormally short, nonfunctional protein that cannot regulate transcription. Defective regulation of the transcription process affects the development and function of many parts of the body. It is not known how nonfunctional carboxy-terminal domain phosphatase 1 protein results in the specific signs and symptoms of CCFDN.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to glutathione synthetase deficiency ?
Answer: Mutations in the GSS gene cause glutathione synthetase deficiency. The GSS gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called glutathione synthetase. This enzyme is involved in a process called the gamma-glutamyl cycle, which takes place in most of the body's cells. This cycle is necessary for producing a molecule called glutathione. Glutathione protects cells from damage caused by unstable oxygen-containing molecules, which are byproducts of energy production. Glutathione is called an antioxidant because of its role in protecting cells from the damaging effects of these unstable molecules. Mutations in the GSS gene prevent cells from making adequate levels of glutathione, leading to the signs and symptoms of glutathione synthetase deficiency.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Renal Artery Stenosis ?
Answer: About 90 percent of RAS is caused by atherosclerosisclogging, narrowing, and hardening of the renal arteries.2 In these cases, RAS develops when plaquea sticky substance made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other material found in the bloodbuilds up on the inner wall of one or both renal arteries. Plaque buildup is what makes the artery wall hard and narrow.
                
Most other cases of RAS are caused by fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD)the abnormal development or growth of cells on the renal artery wallswhich can cause blood vessels to narrow. Rarely, RAS is caused by other conditions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Banki syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Banki syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Banki syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Synostosis of carpal bones 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Clinodactyly - Radial deviation of finger - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Dietary Fiber
Answer: Summary : Fiber is a substance in plants. Dietary fiber is the kind you eat. It's a type of carbohydrate. You may also see it listed on a food label as soluble fiber or insoluble fiber. Both types have important health benefits.    Good sources of dietary fiber include       - Whole grains    - Nuts and seeds    - Fruit and vegetables       Dietary fiber adds bulk to your diet and makes you feel full faster, helping you control your weight. It helps digestion and helps prevent constipation. Most Americans don't eat enough dietary fiber. But add it to your diet slowly. Increasing dietary fiber too quickly can lead to gas, bloating, and cramps.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is the outlook for Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Other Myeloid Malignancies ?
Answer: Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options for childhood AML depend on the following:         - The age of the child when the cancer is diagnosed.    - The race or ethnic group of the child.    - Whether the child is greatly overweight.    -  Number of white blood cells in the blood at diagnosis.    - Whether the AML occurred after previous cancer treatment.    - The subtype of AML.    - Whether there are certain chromosome or gene changes in the leukemia cells.    - Whether the child has Down syndrome. Most children with AML and Down syndrome can be cured of their leukemia.    - Whether the leukemia is in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord).    - How quickly the leukemia responds to treatment.    - Whether the AML is newly diagnosed (untreated) or has recurred (come back) after being treated.    - The length of time since treatment ended, for AML that has recurred.        The prognosis and treatment options for childhood CML depend on how long it has been since the patient was diagnosed and how many blast cells are in the blood.   The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options for JMML depend on the following:         - The age of the child when the cancer is diagnosed.    - The type of gene affected and the number of genes that have changes.    - How many red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets are in the blood.    - Whether the JMML is newly diagnosed (untreated) or has recurred after treatment.        The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options for MDS depend on the following:         - Whether the MDS was caused by previous cancer treatment.    - How low the numbers of red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets are.    - Whether the MDS is newly diagnosed (untreated) or has recurred after treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by STING-associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy ?
Answer: The prevalence of this condition is unknown. Only a few affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
				                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Vaccine therapy     Vaccine therapy is a type of biologic therapy. Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy. Vaccine therapy can also be a type of targeted therapy.
				                
				                
				                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
				                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
				                
				                
				                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
				                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: Do you have information about Household Products
Answer: Summary : The products you use for cleaning, carpentry, auto repair, gardening, and many other household uses can contain ingredients that can harm you, your family, and the environment. These include        - Oven and drain cleaners    - Laundry powder    - Floor polish    - Paint thinners, strippers and removers    - Pesticides    - Grease and rust removers    - Motor oil and fuel additives    - Arts and craft supplies       Toxic substances in these products can cause harm if inhaled, swallowed, or absorbed through the skin. People respond to toxic substances in different ways. At high doses a toxic substance might cause birth defects or other serious problems, including brain damage or death.    To avoid problems, keep products in the containers they come in and use them exactly as the label says. Follow label directions or get medical help if you swallow, inhale or get them on your skin.     Environmental Protection Agency
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: Clinical research is medical research involving people. It includes clinical studies, which observe and gather information about large groups of people. It also includes clinical trials, which test a medicine, therapy, medical device, or intervention in people to see if it is safe and effective. Clinical trials are the best way to find out whether a particular intervention actually slows, delays, or prevents Alzheimers disease. Trials may compare a potential new treatment with a standard treatment or placebo (mock treatment). Or, they may study whether a certain behavior or condition affects the progress of Alzheimers or the chances of developing it. See the latest Alzheimers Disease Progress Report to read about results of NIA-supported Alzheimers research.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) mucolipidosis II alpha/beta ?
Answer: Mucolipidosis II alpha/beta (also known as I-cell disease) is a progressively debilitating disorder that affects many parts of the body. Most affected individuals do not survive past early childhood.  At birth, children with mucolipidosis II alpha/beta are small and have weak muscle tone (hypotonia) and a weak cry. Affected individuals grow slowly after birth and usually stop growing during the second year of life. Development is delayed, particularly the development of speech and motor skills such as sitting and standing.  Children with mucolipidosis II alpha/beta typically have several bone abnormalities, many of which are present at birth. Affected individuals may have an abnormally rounded upper back (kyphosis), feet that are abnormally rotated (clubfeet), dislocated hips, unusually shaped long bones, and short hands and fingers. People with this condition also have joint deformities (contractures) that significantly affect mobility. Most children with mucolipidosis II alpha/beta do not develop the ability to walk independently. Affected individuals have dysostosis multiplex, which refers to multiple skeletal abnormalities seen on x-ray.  Other features of mucolipidosis II alpha/beta include a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia) or lower abdomen (inguinal hernia), heart valve abnormalities, distinctive-looking facial features that are described as "coarse," and overgrowth of the gums (gingival hypertrophy). Vocal cords can stiffen, resulting in a hoarse voice. The airway is narrow, which can contribute to prolonged or recurrent respiratory infections. Affected individuals may also have recurrent ear infections, which can lead to hearing loss.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Pachyonychia congenita inherited ?
Answer: How is pachyonychia congenita inherited? Pachyonychia congenita (PC) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with PC has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Shapiro syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Shapiro syndrome? Shapiro syndrome generally consists of three findings: spontaneous periodic hypothermia, excessive sweating, and agenesis of the corpus callosum. However, there has been a documented case of a 4-year-old girl with Shapiro syndrome who did not have agenesis of the corpus callosum. Additionally, there have been some patients who also produce excessive amounts of urine  (polyuria) and have experienced excessive thirst (polydipsia).  Given that some people with Shapiro syndrome do not respond well to the various treatment options available for the condition, the symptoms may worsen with time for some people.   The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Shapiro syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Gait disturbance 90% Hyperhidrosis 90% Hypothermia 90% Incoordination 90% Nausea and vomiting 90% Pallor 90% Arrhythmia 50% Reduced consciousness/confusion 50% Seizures 50% Sleep disturbance 50% Tremor 50% Abnormal pattern of respiration 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Diarrhea 7.5% Skin rash 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is primary myelofibrosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from gene mutations that occur in early blood-forming cells after conception. These alterations are called somatic mutations.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How many people are affected by beta-ketothiolase deficiency ?
Answer: Beta-ketothiolase deficiency appears to be very rare. It is estimated to affect fewer than 1 in 1 million newborns.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for amelogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of amelogenesis imperfecta:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Amelogenesis imperfecta - hypoplastic autosomal dominant - local  - Genetic Testing Registry: Amelogenesis imperfecta, hypocalcification type  - Genetic Testing Registry: Amelogenesis imperfecta, type 1E  - Genetic Testing Registry: Amelogenesis imperfecta, type IC  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Amelogenesis imperfecta  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Tooth - Abnormal Colors   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Inflammatory breast cancer ?
Answer: Inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) is a rare and aggressive type of breast cancer in which the cancer cells block the lymph vessels in the skin of the breast. This type of breast cancer is called inflammatory because the breast often looks swollen and red, or inflamed. The skin may also look dimpled like the skin of an orange. IBC can be difficult to diagnose because there is no lump to feel or detect on a mammogram. It is crucial to identify IBC right away because early diagnosis and treatment can greatly improve the outcome. Patients are often given a combination of treatments, including chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation therapy. Approximately one-third of individuals diagnosed with IBC will become long-term survivors. Like other types of breast cancer, IBC can occur in men, but usually at an older age than in women. Some studies have shown an association between family history of breast cancer and IBC, but more studies are needed to draw firm conclusions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Learning Disabilities ?
Answer: Learning disabilities can be lifelong conditions. In some people, several overlapping learning disabilities may be apparent. Other people may have a single, isolated learning problem that has little impact on their lives.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What to do for Kidney Failure: Choosing a Treatment That's Right for You ?
Answer: All of the treatment options for kidney failure require changes and restrictions in your diet.
                
Hemodialysis
                
Hemodialysis has the most restrictions. You should watch how much water and other liquids you get from food and drinks and avoid getting too much sodium, often from salt; potassium; and phosphorus. You may find it difficult to limit phosphorus because many foods that are high in phosphorus also provide the protein you need. Hemodialysis can remove protein from the body, so you should eat foods with high-quality protein, such as meat, fish, and eggs. Limit your phosphorus by avoiding foods such as beans, peas, nuts, tea, and colas. You may also need to take a pill called a phosphate binder that keeps phosphorus in your food from entering your bloodstream. Talk with your dialysis centers dietitian to find a hemodialysis meal plan that works for you.
                
More information about nutrition for people who are on hemodialysis is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis.
                
Peritoneal Dialysis
                
Like hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis requires limits on sodium and phosphorus. You may need to take a phosphate binder. The liquid limitations in peritoneal dialysis may not be as strict as those for hemodialysis. In fact, you may need to drink more water and other liquids if your peritoneal dialysis treatments remove too much fluid from your body. Peritoneal dialysis removes potassium from the body, so you may need to eat potassium-rich foods such as potatoes, tomatoes, oranges, and bananas. However, be careful not to eat too much potassium because it can cause an unsteady heartbeat. Peritoneal dialysis removes even more protein than hemodialysis, so eating foods with high-quality protein is important. You may need to limit calories because your body absorbs sugar from the dialysis solution.
                
Kidney Transplantation
                
Kidney transplantation has the fewest restrictions on your diet. You should limit sodium because it can raise your blood pressure. Medicines that you take after the transplant can cause you to gain weight, so you may need to limit calories.
                
Conservative Management
                
The diet for conservative management limits protein. Protein breaks down into waste products the kidneys must remove. Limiting protein may reduce the amount of work the kidneys have to do so they will last longer.
                

                
Hemodialysis    Peritoneal Dialysis    Kidney Transplantation                 In Center                 Home                 CAPD                 CCPD                 Deceased                 Living                     Schedule                 Three treatments a week for 3 to 5 hours or more.                 More flexibility in determining your schedule of treatments.                 Four to six exchanges a day, every day.                 Three to five exchanges a night, every night, with an additional exchange begun first thing in the morning.                 You may wait several years before a suitable kidney is available.                 If a friend or family member is donating, you can schedule the operation when you're both ready.                     After the operation, you'll have regular checkups with your doctor.                     Location                 Dialysis center.                 Home.                 Any clean environment that allows solution exchanges.                 The transplant operation takes place in a hospital.                     Availability                 Available in most communities; may require travel in some rural areas.                 Generally available, but not widely used because of equipment requirements.                 Widely available.                 Widely available.                 Transplant centers are located throughout the country. However, the demand for kidneys is far greater than the supply.                     Equipment      and Supplies                 No equipment or supplies in the home.                 Hemodialysis machine connected to plumbing; chair.                 Bags of dialysis solution take up storage space.                 Cycling machine; bags of dialysis solution.                 No equipment or supplies needed.                     Training Required                 Little training required; clinic staff perform most tasks.                 You and a helper must attend several training sessions.                 You'll need to attend several training sessions.                 You'll need to learn about your medications and when to take them.                     Diet                 Must limit fluids, sodium, potassium, and phosphorus.                 Must limit sodium and calories.                 Fewer dietary restrictions.                     Level of Freedom                 Little freedom during treatments. Greater freedom on non-treatment days.                 More freedom to set your own schedule. You're still linked to a machine for several hours a week.                 You can move around, exercise, work, drive, etc., with solution in your abdomen.                 You're linked to a machine during the night. You're free from exchanges during the day.                 Offers the greatest amount of freedom.                     Level of Responsibility                 Some patients prefer to let clinic staff perform all tasks.                 You and your helper are responsible for cleaning and setting up equipment and monitoring vital signs. Can be stressful on family helpers.                 You must perform exchanges four to six times a day, every day.                 You must set up your cycler every night.                 You must take immunosuppressants every day for as long as the transplanted kidney functions.
                
More information about the treatments for kidney failure is provided in the NIDDK health communication program, National Kidney Disease Education Program.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for glycogen storage disease type III ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of glycogen storage disease type III:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Glycogen Storage Disease Type III  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glycogen storage disease type III   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Prinzmetal's variant angina ?
Answer: What is the treatment for Prinzmetal's variant angina? The goal of treatment is to control chest pain and to prevent heart attack. Nitroglycerin or other nitrate medications may be prescribed to relieve chest pain. Calcium-channel blockers may be chronically needed. These medications widen the blood vessels to improve blood and oxygen flow. Medications may also include beta-blockers; however, in some individuals, beta-blockers may be harmful.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Aganglionosis, total intestinal ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Aganglionosis, total intestinal? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Aganglionosis, total intestinal. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Total intestinal aganglionosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Amelogenesis imperfecta, hypoplastic/hypomaturation, X-linked 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Amelogenesis imperfecta, hypoplastic/hypomaturation, X-linked 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Amelogenesis imperfecta, hypoplastic/hypomaturation, X-linked 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Amelogenesis imperfecta - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of temperature regulation 90% Arthralgia 90% Hepatomegaly 90% Hyperostosis 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Lipoatrophy 90% Skin rash 90% Splenomegaly 90% Clubbing of toes 50% Hyperhidrosis 50% Increased antibody level in blood 50% Lymphadenopathy 50% Muscle weakness 50% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Abnormal nasal morphology 7.5% Abnormal pyramidal signs 7.5% Abnormality of the tongue 7.5% Arachnodactyly 7.5% Arrhythmia 7.5% Cardiomegaly 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Macrotia 7.5% Microcytic anemia 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Thick lower lip vermilion 7.5% Seizures 5% Short stature 5% Adipose tissue loss - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Basal ganglia calcification - Bone pain - Camptodactyly of finger - Clubbing of fingers - Conjunctivitis - Elbow flexion contracture - Elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Episcleritis - Erythema - Failure to thrive - Flexion contracture of toe - Hyperpigmentation of the skin - Hypertriglyceridemia - Intellectual disability, mild - Large eyes - Lipodystrophy - Long fingers - Macroglossia - Osteopenia - Panniculitis - Prominent nose - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria ?
Answer: Combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria (CMAMMA) is an inherited condition in which certain chemicals accumulate in the blood and urine of affected individuals. People with CMAMMA can have a wide variety of symptoms. Children with CMAMMA can suffer from developmental delays and a failure to gain weight and grow (failure to thrive). In those who were identified as adults, symptoms may include psychiatric features and neurological problems that can mimic Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis. Recently, researchers have found that mutations in the ACSF3 gene cause CMAMMA.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type V ?
Answer: Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type V (HSAN5) is a condition that affects the sensory nerve cells. These cells, which are also called sensory neurons, transmit information about sensations such as pain, temperature, and touch. Signs and symptoms of the condition generally develop at birth or during early infancy and may include a loss of pain and temperature sensation. Because of the inability to feel deep pain, affected people suffer repeated severe injuries such as bone fractures and joint injuries that go unnoticed. HSAN5 is caused by changes (mutations) in the NGF gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Medical management is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person and is oriented to control hyperthermia (elevated body temperature) and prevent injury.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about Radiation Therapy
Answer: Summary : Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment. It uses high doses of radiation to kill cancer cells and stop them from spreading. About half of all cancer patients receive it. The radiation may be external, from special machines, or internal, from radioactive substances that a doctor places inside your body. The type of radiation therapy you receive depends on many factors, including       - The type of cancer    - The size of the cancer    - The cancer's location in the body    - How close the cancer is to normal tissues that are sensitive to radiation    - How far into the body the radiation needs to travel    - Your general health and medical history    - Whether you will have other types of cancer treatment    - Other factors, such as your age and other medical conditions       Radiation therapy can damage normal cells as well as cancer cells. Treatment must be carefully planned to minimize side effects. Common side effects include skin changes and fatigue. Other side effects depend on the part of your body being treated.    Sometimes radiation is used with other treatments, like surgery or chemotherapy.     NIH: National Cancer Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Osteomesopyknosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Osteomesopyknosis? Osteomesopyknosis may cause chronic, low-grade back pain in the thoracic (middle) and lumbar (lower) regions. It is considered a mild form of osteosclerosis and is usually found in young adults or teenagers. Height and intellect are not affected. Life expectancy in affected people is normal. There are cases of association with other findings such as ovarian sclerosis and lymphoma; however, it is uncertain whether they have been coincidental or features of the disorder. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteomesopyknosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Increased bone mineral density 90% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 50% Kyphosis 50% Scoliosis 50% Abnormal cortical bone morphology 7.5% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Infertility - Low back pain - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Crigler-Najjar syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Crigler-Najjar syndrome:  - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Facts About Jaundice and Kernicterus  - Genetic Testing Registry: Crigler Najjar syndrome, type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Crigler-Najjar syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Crigler-Najjar syndrome, type II   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is Chandler's syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Chandler's syndrome inherited? While the cause of Chandler's syndrome is unknown, at this time there is no evidence that it is inherited (hereditary).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Vohwinkel syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development ?
Answer: People normally have 46 chromosomes in each cell. Two of the 46 chromosomes, known as X and Y, are called sex chromosomes because they help determine whether a person will develop male or female sex characteristics. Females typically have two X chromosomes (46,XX), and males usually have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome (46,XY).  The SRY gene, normally located on the Y chromosome, provides instructions for making the sex-determining region Y protein. The sex-determining region Y protein causes a fetus to develop as a male.  In about 80 percent of individuals with 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development, the condition results from an abnormal exchange of genetic material between chromosomes (translocation). This exchange occurs as a random event during the formation of sperm cells in the affected person's father. The translocation causes the SRY gene to be misplaced, almost always onto an X chromosome. If a fetus is conceived from a sperm cell with an X chromosome bearing the SRY gene, it will develop as a male despite not having a Y chromosome. This form of the condition is called SRY-positive 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development.  About 20 percent of people with 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development do not have the SRY gene. This form of the condition is called SRY-negative 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development. The cause of the disorder in these individuals is unknown. They are more likely to have ambiguous genitalia than are people with the SRY-positive form.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Is dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell usually leads to less severe symptoms in females than in males or may cause no symptoms in females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for juvenile hyaline fibromatosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of juvenile hyaline fibromatosis:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hyalinosis, Inherited Systemic  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hyaline fibromatosis syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy ?
Answer: Spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy (SMA-PME) is a neurological condition that causes muscle weakness and wasting (atrophy) and a combination of seizures and uncontrollable muscle jerks (myoclonic epilepsy).  In individuals with SMA-PME, spinal muscular atrophy results from a loss of specialized nerve cells, called motor neurons, in the spinal cord and the part of the brain that is connected to the spinal cord (the brainstem). After a few years of normal development, affected children begin experiencing muscle weakness and atrophy in the lower limbs, causing difficulty walking and frequent falls. The muscles in the upper limbs are later affected, and soon the muscle weakness and atrophy spreads throughout the body. Once weakness reaches the muscles used for breathing and swallowing, it leads to life-threatening breathing problems and increased susceptibility to pneumonia.  A few years after the muscle weakness begins, affected individuals start to experience recurrent seizures (epilepsy). Most people with SMA-PME have a variety of seizure types. In addition to myoclonic epilepsy, they may have generalized tonic-clonic seizures (also known as grand mal seizures), which cause muscle rigidity, convulsions, and loss of consciousness. Affected individuals can also have absence seizures, which cause loss of consciousness for a short period that may or may not be accompanied by muscle jerks. In SMA-PME, seizures often increase in frequency over time and are usually not well-controlled with medication. Individuals with SMA-PME may also have episodes of rhythmic shaking (tremors), usually in the hands; these tremors are not thought to be related to epilepsy.  Some people with SMA-PME develop hearing loss caused by nerve damage in the inner ear (sensorineural hearing loss).  Individuals with SMA-PME have a shortened lifespan; they generally live into late childhood or early adulthood. The cause of death is often respiratory failure or pneumonia.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Progeria ?
Answer: How might progeria be treated? Management for progeria generally focuses on the signs and symptoms of the condition and may include the following: Exercise, diet modification, and medication when the lipid profile becomes abnormal Frequent small meals to maximize caloric intake Oral hydration Use of shoe pads for foot discomfort due to lack of body fat Use of sunscreen on all exposed areas of skin Nitroglycerin for angina Routine anticongestive therapy if congestive heart failure is present Statins for their putative effect on farnesylation inhibition Anticoagulation therapy if vascular blockage, transient ischemic attacks, stroke, angina, or heart attack occur Routine physical and occupational therapy to help maintain range of motion in large and small joints Although there is currently no cure for progeria, research involving treatments is ongoing and scientists have been making much progress. The results of a recently published phase II clinical trial provided preliminary evidence that lonafarnib, a farnesyltransferase inhibitor, may improve cardiovascular status, bone structure, and audiological (hearing) status in affected children. A free, full-text version of this study is available on PubMed and can be viewed by clicking here.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is von Willebrand disease inherited ?
Answer: Von Willebrand disease can have different inheritance patterns.  Most cases of type 1 and type 2 von Willebrand disease are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Type 3, some cases of type 2, and a small number of type 1 cases of von Willebrand disease are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Progressive transformation of germinal centers ?
Answer: Progressive transformation of germinal centers is a condition in which a lymph node becomes very enlarged (lymphadenopathy).  Typically, only one lymph node is affected, though PTGC can involve multiple lymph nodes.  The neck is the most common location of affected lymph nodes, but PTGC may also affect lymph nodes in the groin and armpits.  Adults are more frequently affected than children, but children have a higher chance of developing PTGC multiple times (recurrence).  PTGC is not considered a precancerous condition, though it has been associated with Hodgkin lymphoma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) MECP2 duplication syndrome ?
Answer: MECP2 duplication syndrome is a condition that occurs almost exclusively in males and is characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability. Most people with this condition also have weak muscle tone in infancy, feeding difficulties, poor or absent speech, seizures that may not improve with treatment, or muscle stiffness (spasticity). Individuals with MECP2 duplication syndrome have delayed development of motor skills such as sitting and walking. Some affected individuals experience the loss of previously acquired skills (developmental regression). Approximately one third of people with this condition cannot walk without assistance. Many individuals with MECP2 duplication syndrome have recurrent respiratory tract infections. These respiratory infections are a major cause of death in affected individuals, with almost half succumbing by age 25.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Usher syndrome ?
Answer: Usher syndrome is a condition characterized by hearing loss or deafness and progressive vision loss. The loss of vision is caused by an eye disease called retinitis pigmentosa (RP), which affects the layer of light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye (the retina). Vision loss occurs as the light-sensing cells of the retina gradually deteriorate. Night vision loss begins first, followed by blind spots that develop in the side (peripheral) vision. Over time, these blind spots enlarge and merge to produce tunnel vision. In some cases of Usher syndrome, vision is further impaired by clouding of the lens of the eye (cataracts). Many people with retinitis pigmentosa retain some central vision throughout their lives, however.  Researchers have identified three major types of Usher syndrome, designated as types I, II, and III. These types are distinguished by their severity and the age when signs and symptoms appear. Type I is further divided into seven distinct subtypes, designated as types IA through IG. Usher syndrome type II has at least three described subtypes, designated as types IIA, IIB, and IIC.  Individuals with Usher syndrome type I are typically born completely deaf or lose most of their hearing within the first year of life. Progressive vision loss caused by retinitis pigmentosa becomes apparent in childhood. This type of Usher syndrome also includes problems with the inner ear that affect balance. As a result, children with the condition begin sitting independently and walking later than usual.  Usher syndrome type II is characterized by hearing loss from birth and progressive vision loss that begins in adolescence or adulthood. The hearing loss associated with this form of Usher syndrome ranges from mild to severe and mainly affects high tones. Affected children have problems hearing high, soft speech sounds, such as those of the letters d and t. The degree of hearing loss varies within and among families with this condition. Unlike other forms of Usher syndrome, people with type II do not have difficulties with balance caused by inner ear problems.  People with Usher syndrome type III experience progressive hearing loss and vision loss beginning in the first few decades of life. Unlike the other forms of Usher syndrome, infants with Usher syndrome type III are usually born with normal hearing. Hearing loss typically begins during late childhood or adolescence, after the development of speech, and progresses over time. By middle age, most affected individuals are profoundly deaf. Vision loss caused by retinitis pigmentosa also develops in late childhood or adolescence. People with Usher syndrome type III may also experience difficulties with balance due to inner ear problems. These problems vary among affected individuals, however.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Pinched Nerve ?
Answer: With treatment, most people recover from pinched nerve. However, in some cases, the damage is irreversible.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Absence of Tibia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Absence of Tibia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Absence of Tibia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Absent tibia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Back Pain ?
Answer: Most low back pain can be treated without surgery. Treatment involves using over-the-counter pain relievers to reduce discomfort and anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce inflammation. The goal of treatment is to restore proper function and strength to the back, and prevent recurrence of the injury. Medications are often used to treat acute and chronic low back pain. Effective pain relief may involve a combination of prescription drugs and over-the-counter remedies. Although the use of cold and hot compresses has never been scientifically proven to quickly resolve low back injury, compresses may help reduce pain and inflammation and allow greater mobility for some individuals. Bed rest is recommended for only 12 days at most. Individuals should resume activities as soon as possible. Exercise may be the most effective way to speed recovery from low back pain and help strengthen back and abdominal muscles. In the most serious cases, when the condition does not respond to other therapies, surgery may relieve pain caused by back problems or serious musculoskeletal injuries.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What is (are) Peripheral Arterial Disease (P.A.D.) ?
Answer: Here are links to more information about P.A.D. from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. -  What Is Peripheral Arterial Disease?  -  Atherosclerosis  -  The DASH Eating Plan  - Facts about P.A.D.   - Facts about P.A.D. (Spanish)  - Facts About P.A.D. for African Americans  -  Keep the Beat: Heart Healthy Recipes  - Smoking and Your Heart  -   Your Guide to Physical Activity and Your Heart  -  Stay in Circulation: Take Steps to Learn about P.A.D. - Stay in Circulation: Take Steps to Learn about P.A.D. Wallet Card  - Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure with DASH  -  Your Guide to Lowering Your Cholesterol with TLC What Is Peripheral Arterial Disease? Atherosclerosis The DASH Eating Plan Facts about P.A.D.  Facts about P.A.D. (Spanish) Facts About P.A.D. for African Americans  Keep the Beat: Heart Healthy Recipes Smoking and Your Heart  Your Guide to Physical Activity and Your Heart Stay in Circulation: Take Steps to Learn about P.A.D. Stay in Circulation: Take Steps to Learn about P.A.D. Wallet Card Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure with DASH Your Guide to Lowering Your Cholesterol with TLC For print resources and materials on P.A.D. visit http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/public/heart/pad/index.html
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: What is (are) complement factor I deficiency ?
Answer: Complement factor I deficiency is a disorder that affects the immune system. People with this condition are prone to recurrent infections, including infections of the upper respiratory tract, ears, skin, and urinary tract. They may also contract more serious infections such as pneumonia, meningitis, and sepsis, which may be life-threatening.  Some people with complement factor I deficiency have a kidney disorder called glomerulonephritis with isolated C3 deposits. Complement factor I deficiency can also be associated with autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's tissues and organs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Menkes syndrome ?
Answer: Menkes syndrome is a disorder that affects copper levels in the body. It is characterized by sparse, kinky hair; failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive); and deterioration of the nervous system. Additional signs and symptoms include weak muscle tone (hypotonia), sagging facial features, seizures, developmental delay, and intellectual disability. Children with Menkes syndrome typically begin to develop symptoms during infancy and often do not live past age 3. Early treatment with copper may improve the prognosis in some affected individuals. In rare cases, symptoms begin later in childhood.  Occipital horn syndrome (sometimes called X-linked cutis laxa) is a less severe form of Menkes syndrome that begins in early to middle childhood. It is characterized by wedge-shaped calcium deposits in a bone at the base of the skull (the occipital bone), coarse hair, and loose skin and joints.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Abetalipoproteinemia ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for abetalipoproteinemia? Yes. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) provides information about the genetic tests available for abetalipoproteinemia. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional. Prenatal testing may also be available for pregnancies at increased risk if the mutations in the family have been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is complete LCAT deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: How to diagnose Cerebellar degeneration ?
Answer: How is cerebellar degeneration diagnosed? A diagnosis of cerebellar degeneration is often suspected when concerning signs and symptoms, such as a poorly coordinated gait (walk) and uncoordinated hand/finger movements, are present. For hereditary forms of cerebellar degeneration, genetic testing may be used to confirm the diagnosis. However, this is only an option if the disease-causing gene for that particular condition is known. In cerebellar degeneration caused by acquired (non-genetic and non-inherited) conditions or conditions with an unknown genetic cause, imaging studies such as computed tomography (CT scan) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI scan) may be necessary to establish a diagnosis. A CT scan is an imaging method that uses x-rays to create pictures of cross-sections of the body, while an MRI scan uses powerful magnets and radio waves to create pictures of the brain and surrounding nerve tissues. Both of these imaging methods can be used to identify brain abnormalities found in people with cerebellar degeneration. Is genetic testing available for cerebellar degeneration? Genetic testing is only available for cerebellar degeneration that is caused by an inherited change (mutation) in a disease-causing gene. For example, genetic testing is available for many different genes known to cause spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) which is one cause of inherited cerebellar degeneration. For more information on genetic testing for SCA, please click here. For many conditions known to cause cerebellar ataxia, the genetic cause is unknown or the condition is acquired (non-genetic and non-inherited). Genetic testing is not an option for people with these conditions.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Chondrocalcinosis 2 ?
Answer: How might chondrocalcinosis 2 be treated? There is currently no cure for chondrocalcinosis 2. Unfortunately, the accumulation of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals can not be prevented and once present, these crystals can not be removed from affected joints. Therapies are available to manage the signs and symptoms of the condition. During episodes of joint pain, stiffness, and/or swelling, the following treatments may be recommended to relieve symptoms: joint aspiration (draining of fluid from the affected joint), corticosteroids injections, and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as aspirin or ibuprofen. Small doses of a medication called colchicine or NSAIDS are sometimes prescribed to people with frequent and severe attacks in an attempt to prevent future episodes; however, this therapy is not effective in all cases.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Orofaciodigital syndrome 2 inherited ?
Answer: How is orofaciodigital syndrome type 2 inherited? Orofaciodigital syndrome type 2 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means that an individual needs to inherit two mutated (changed) copies of the gene-one from each parent-in order to have the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal 1 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ceroid lipofuscinosis neuronal 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blindness - Cerebral atrophy - Decreased light- and dark-adapted electroretinogram amplitude - Depression - EEG abnormality - Flexion contracture - Hallucinations - Increased neuronal autofluorescent lipopigment - Intellectual disability - Irritability - Loss of speech - Macular degeneration - Muscular hypotonia - Myoclonus - Onset - Optic atrophy - Postnatal microcephaly - Progressive microcephaly - Progressive visual loss - Psychomotor deterioration - Retinal degeneration - Seizures - Sleep disturbance - Spasticity - Undetectable electroretinogram - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Locked-In Syndrome ?
Answer: Locked-in syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by complete paralysis of voluntary muscles in all parts of the body except for those that control eye movement. It may result from traumatic brain injury, diseases of the circulatory system, diseases that destroy the myelin sheath surrounding nerve cells, or medication overdose. Individuals with locked-in syndrome are conscious and can think and reason, but are unable to speak or move. The disorder leaves individuals completely mute and paralyzed. Communication may be possible with blinking eye movements
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: How many people are affected by dopa-responsive dystonia ?
Answer: Dopa-responsive dystonia is estimated to affect 1 per million people worldwide. However, the disorder is likely underdiagnosed because the condition may not be identified in people with mild symptoms, or it may be misdiagnosed in people who have symptoms similar to other movement disorders.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Tooth Disorders ?
Answer: Your teeth are made of a hard, bonelike material. Inside the tooth are nerves and blood vessels. You need your teeth for many activities you may take for granted. These include eating, speaking and even smiling. But tooth disorders are nothing to smile about. They include problems such as cavities (also known as tooth decay), infections, and injuries.     The most familiar symptom of a tooth problem is a toothache. Others include worn-down or loose teeth. It's important that you see a dentist if you have any problems with your teeth. Fortunately, you can prevent many tooth disorders by taking care of your teeth and keeping them clean.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Hemangioma thrombocytopenia syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hemangioma thrombocytopenia syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hemangioma thrombocytopenia syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hemangioma - Hyperkalemia - Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia - Thrombocytopenia - Ventricular arrhythmia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Pol III-related leukodystrophy ?
Answer: Pol III-related leukodystrophy is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Only about 40 cases have been described in the medical literature. However, researchers believe that a significant percentage of people with an unspecified hypomyelinating leukodystrophy could have Pol III-related leukodystrophy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Angina ?
Answer: Treatments for angina include lifestyle changes, medicines, medical procedures, cardiac rehabilitation (rehab), and other therapies. The main goals of treatment are to:
                
Reduce pain and discomfort and how often it occurs
                
Prevent or lower your risk for heart attack and death by treating your underlying heart condition
                
Lifestyle changes and medicines may be the only treatments needed if your symptoms are mild and aren't getting worse. If lifestyle changes and medicines don't control angina, you may need medical procedures or cardiac rehab.
                
Unstable angina is an emergency condition that requires treatment in a hospital.
                
Lifestyle Changes
                
Making lifestyle changes can help prevent episodes of angina. You can:
                
Slow down or take rest breaks if physical exertion triggers angina.
                
Avoid large meals and rich foods that leave you feeling stuffed if heavy meals trigger angina.
                
Try to avoid situations that make you upset or stressed if emotional stress triggers angina. Learn ways to handle stress that can't be avoided.
                
You also can make lifestyle changes that help lower your risk for coronary heart disease. One of the most important changes is to quit smoking. Smoking can damage and tighten blood vessels and raise your risk for CHD. Talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit. Also, try to avoid secondhand smoke.
                
If you have trouble quitting smoking on your own, consider joining a support group. Many hospitals, workplaces, and community groups offer classes to help people quit smoking.
                
For more information about how to quit smoking, go to the Diseases and Conditions Index (DCI) Smoking and Your Heart article and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institutes (NHLBIs) "Your Guide to a Healthy Heart."
                
Following a healthy diet is another important lifestyle change. A healthy diet can prevent or reduce high blood pressure and high blood cholesterol and help you maintain a healthy weight.
                
A healthy diet includes a variety of fruits and vegetables (including beans and peas). It also includes whole grains, lean meats, poultry without skin, seafood, and fat-free or low-fat milk and dairy products. A healthy diet also is low in sodium (salt), added sugars, solid fats, and refined grains.
                
For more information about following a healthy diet, go to the NHLBIs Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure With DASH and the U.S. Department of Agricultures ChooseMyPlate.gov Web site. Both resources provide general information about healthy eating.
                
Other important lifestyle changes include:
                
Being physically active. Check with your doctor to find out how much and what kinds of activity are safe for you. For more information, go to the DCI Physical Activity and Your Heart article.
                
Maintaining a healthy weight. If youre overweight or obese, work with your doctor to create a reasonable weight-loss plan. Controlling your weight helps you control CHD risk factors.
                
Taking all medicines as your doctor prescribes, especially if you have diabetes.
                
Medicines
                
Nitrates are the medicines most commonly used to treat angina. They relax and widen blood vessels. This allows more blood to flow to the heart, while reducing the hearts workload.
                
Nitroglycerin (NI-tro-GLIS-er-in) is the most commonly used nitrate for angina. Nitroglycerin that dissolves under your tongue or between your cheek and gum is used to relieve angina episodes.
                
Nitroglycerin pills and skin patches are used to prevent angina episodes. However, pills and skin patches act too slowly to relieve pain during an angina attack.
                
Other medicines also are used to treat angina, such as beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, oral antiplatelet medicines, or anticoagulants (blood thinners). These medicines can help:
                
Lower blood pressure and cholesterol levels
                
Slow the heart rate
                
Relax blood vessels
                
Reduce strain on the heart
                
Prevent blood clots from forming
                
People who have stable angina may be advised to get annual flu shots.
                
Medical Procedures
                
If lifestyle changes and medicines don't control angina, you may need a medical procedure to treat the underlying heart disease. Both angioplasty (AN-jee-oh-plas-tee) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) are commonly used to treat heart disease.
                
Angioplasty opens blocked or narrowed coronary arteries. During angioplasty, a thin tube with a balloon or other device on the end is threaded through a blood vessel to the narrowed or blocked coronary artery.
                
Once in place, the balloon is inflated to push the plaque outward against the wall of the artery. This widens the artery and restores blood flow.
                
Angioplasty can improve blood flow to your heart and relieve chest pain. A small mesh tube called a stent usually is placed in the artery to help keep it open after the procedure.
                
During CABG, healthy arteries or veins taken from other areas in your body are used to bypass (that is, go around) your narrowed coronary arteries. Bypass surgery can improve blood flow to your heart, relieve chest pain, and possibly prevent a heart attack.
                
You will work with your doctor to decide which treatment is better for you.
                
Cardiac Rehabilitation
                
Your doctor may recommend cardiac rehab for angina or after angioplasty, CABG, or a heart attack. Cardiac rehab is a medically supervised program that can help improve the health and well-being of people who have heart problems.
                
The cardiac rehab team may include doctors, nurses, exercise specialists, physical and occupational therapists, dietitians or nutritionists, and psychologists or other mental health specialists.
                
Rehab has two parts:
                
Exercise training. This part helps you learn how to exercise safely, strengthen your muscles, and improve your stamina. Your exercise plan will be based on your personal abilities, needs, and interests.
                
Education, counseling, and training. This part of rehab helps you understand your heart condition and find ways to reduce your risk for future heart problems. The rehab team will help you learn how to adjust to a new lifestyle and deal with your fears about the future.
                
For more information about cardiac rehab, go to the DCI Cardiac Rehabilitation article.
                
Enhanced External Counterpulsation Therapy
                
Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) therapy is helpful for some people who have angina. Large cuffs, similar to blood pressure cuffs, are put on your legs. The cuffs are inflated and deflated in sync with your heartbeat.
                
EECP therapy improves the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle and helps relieve angina. You typically get 35 1-hour treatments over 7 weeks.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Hemochromatosis ?
Answer: Health care providers treat hemochromatosis by drawing blood. This process is called phlebotomy. Phlebotomy rids the body of extra iron. This treatment is simple, inexpensive, and safe.
                
Based on the severity of the iron overload, a patient will have phlebotomy to remove a pint of blood once or twice a week for several months to a year, and occasionally longer. Health care providers will test serum ferritin levels periodically to monitor iron levels. The goal is to bring serum ferritin levels to the low end of the average range and keep them there. Depending on the lab, the level is 25 to 50 g/L.
                
After phlebotomy reduces serum ferritin levels to the desired level, patients may need maintenance phlebotomy treatment every few months. Some patients may need phlebotomies more often. Serum ferritin tests every 6 months or once a year will help determine how often a patient should have blood drawn. Many blood donation centers provide free phlebotomy treatment for people with hemochromatosis.
                
Treating hemochromatosis before organs are damaged can prevent complications such as cirrhosis, heart problems, arthritis, and diabetes. Treatment cannot cure these conditions in patients who already have them at diagnosis. However, treatment will help most of these conditions improve. The treatments effectiveness depends on the degree of organ damage. For example, treating hemochromatosis can stop the progression of liver damage in its early stages and lead to a normal life expectancy. However, if a patient develops cirrhosis, his or her chance of developing liver cancer increases, even with phlebotomy treatment. Arthritis usually does not improve even after phlebotomy removes extra iron.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the genetic changes related to benign essential blepharospasm ?
Answer: The causes of benign essential blepharospasm are unknown, although the disorder likely results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Certain genetic changes probably increase the likelihood of developing this condition, and environmental factors may trigger the signs and symptoms in people who are at risk.  Studies suggest that this condition may be related to other forms of adult-onset dystonia, including uncontrolled twisting of the neck muscles (spasmodic torticollis) and spasms of the hand and finger muscles (writer's cramp). Researchers suspect that benign essential blepharospasm and similar forms of dystonia are associated with malfunction of the basal ganglia, which are structures deep within the brain that help start and control movement.  Although genetic factors are almost certainly involved in benign essential blepharospasm, no genes have been clearly associated with the condition. Several studies have looked at the relationship between common variations (polymorphisms) in the DRD5 and TOR1A genes and the risk of developing benign essential blepharospasm. These studies have had conflicting results, with some showing an association and others finding no connection. Researchers are working to determine which genetic factors are related to this disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Another substance that can contribute to lung cancer is asbestos. Asbestos is used in shipbuilding, asbestos mining and manufacturing, insulation work, and brake repair, but many products that contain asbestos have been phased out over the past several decades. If inhaled, asbestos particles can lodge in the lungs, damaging cells and increasing the risk for lung cancer.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Many areas of Research Researchers are working at every stage of kidney disease to improve diagnosis and treatment, including -  trying to find a better way to identify who is at greatest risk for rapidly progressing kidney disease  -  trying to find more effective medications to treat kidney disease and its risk factors, and   -  improving dialysis and the results of kidney transplantation. trying to find a better way to identify who is at greatest risk for rapidly progressing kidney disease trying to find more effective medications to treat kidney disease and its risk factors, and improving dialysis and the results of kidney transplantation. Several areas of research supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) hold great potential. Emphasis is being placed on research related to prevention and early intervention in kidney disease. Interaction With Other Diseases Another focus is on the interaction between kidney disease, diabetes, and cardiovascular (heart) disease. Advances in treatments for diabetes and high blood pressure may help reduce the damage these conditions do to the kidneys in the first place. Research into how to predict who will develop kidney disease may improve prevention. Disease Progression NIDDK is sponsoring a major study -- the Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC) study -- to learn more about how kidney disease progresses. CRIC is following 6,000 adults with mild to moderate kidney disease. About half have diabetes. It is believed that some CRIC study participants' kidney function will decline more rapidly than others', and that some will develop cardiovascular disease while others won't. The goal of the study is to identify the factors linked to rapid decline of kidney function and the development of cardiovascular disease. The data and specimens collected from study participants will be available to other researchers who are studying kidney disease and cardiovascular disease. The CRIC study will allow future investigation into the role of genetic, environmental, behavioral, nutritional, and other factors in kidney disease.  Learn more about the CRIC Study.  Improving Transplants In the area of transplantation, researchers are working to develop new drugs that help the body accept donated organs. The goal is to help transplanted kidneys survive longer and work better. NIDDK scientists are also developing new techniques to improve the body's tolerance for foreign tissue even before the donated kidney is transplanted. This could help reduce or eliminate the need for drugs that suppress the immune system, which could reduce transplantation costs and complications. In the future, scientists may even develop an artificial kidney for implantation.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is multiple cutaneous and mucosal venous malformations inherited ?
Answer: VMCM is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing venous malformations.  Some gene mutations are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in certain cells. These changes, which are not inherited, are called somatic mutations. Researchers have discovered that some VMCM lesions have one inherited and one somatic TEK gene mutation. It is not known if the somatic mutation occurs before or after the venous malformation forms. As lesions are localized and not all veins are malformed, it is thought that the inherited mutation alone is not enough to cause venous malformations.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Cystic Fibrosis ?
Answer: Cystic fibrosis (CF) has no cure. However, treatments have greatly improved in recent years. The goals of CF treatment include:
                
Preventing and controlling lung infections
                
Loosening and removing thick, sticky mucus from the lungs
                
Preventing or treating blockages in the intestines
                
Providing enough nutrition
                
Preventing dehydration (a lack of fluid in the body)
                
Depending on the severity of CF, you or your child may be treated in a hospital.
                
Specialists Involved
                
If you or your child has CF, you may be treated by a CF specialist. This is a doctor who is familiar with the complex nature of CF.
                
Often, a CF specialist works with a medical team of nurses, physical therapists, dietitians, and social workers. CF specialists often are located at major medical centers.
                
The United States also has more than 100 CF Care Centers. These centers have teams of doctors, nurses, dietitians, respiratory therapists, physical therapists, and social workers who have special training related to CF care. Most CF Care Centers have pediatric and adult programs or clinics.
                
For more information about CF Care Centers, go to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation's Care Center Network Web page.
                
Treatment for Lung Problems
                
The main treatments for lung problems in people who have CF are chest physical therapy (CPT), exercise, and medicines. Your doctor also may recommend a pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) program.
                
Chest Physical Therapy
                
CPT also is called chest clapping or percussion. It involves pounding your chest and back over and over with your hands or a device to loosen the mucus from your lungs so that you can cough it up.
                
You might sit down or lie on your stomach with your head down while you do CPT. Gravity and force help drain the mucus from your lungs.
                
Some people find CPT hard or uncomfortable to do. Several devices have been developed that may help with CPT, such as:
                
An electric chest clapper, known as a mechanical percussor.
                
An inflatable therapy vest that uses high-frequency airwaves to force the mucus that's deep in your lungs toward your upper airways so you can cough it up.
                
A small, handheld device that you exhale through. The device causes vibrations that dislodge the mucus.
                
A mask that creates vibrations that help break the mucus loose from your airway walls.
                
Breathing techniques also may help dislodge mucus so you can cough it up. These techniques include forcing out a couple of short breaths or deeper breaths and then doing relaxed breathing. This may help loosen the mucus in your lungs and open your airways.
                
Exercise
                
Aerobic exercise that makes you breathe harder can help loosen the mucus in your airways so you can cough it up. Exercise also helps improve your overall physical condition.
                
However, CF causes your sweat to become very salty. As a result, your body loses large amounts of salt when you sweat. Thus, your doctor may recommend a high-salt diet or salt supplements to maintain the balance of minerals in your blood.
                
If you exercise regularly, you may be able to cut back on your CPT. However, you should check with your doctor first.
                
Medicines
                
If you have CF, your doctor may prescribe antibiotics, anti-inflammatory medicines, bronchodilators, or medicines to help clear the mucus. These medicines help treat or prevent lung infections, reduce swelling and open up the airways, and thin mucus. If you have mutations in a gene called G551D, which occurs in about 5 percent of people who have CF, your doctor may prescribe the oral medicine ivacaftor (approved for people with CF who are 6 years of age and older).
                
Antibiotics are the main treatment to prevent or treat lung infections. Your doctor may prescribe oral, inhaled, or intravenous (IV) antibiotics.
                
Oral antibiotics often are used to treat mild lung infections. Inhaled antibiotics may be used to prevent or control infections caused by the bacteria mucoid Pseudomonas. For severe or hard-to-treat infections, you may be given antibiotics through an IV tube (a tube inserted into a vein). This type of treatment may require you to stay in a hospital.
                
Anti-inflammatory medicines can help reduce swelling in your airways due to ongoing infections. These medicines may be inhaled or oral.
                
Bronchodilators help open the airways by relaxing the muscles around them. These medicines are inhaled. They're often taken just before CPT to help clear mucus out of your airways. You also may take bronchodilators before inhaling other medicines into your lungs.
                
Your doctor may prescribe medicines to reduce the stickiness of your mucus and loosen it up. These medicines can help clear out mucus, improve lung function, and prevent worsening lung symptoms.
                
Treatments for Advanced Lung Disease
                
If you have advanced lung disease, you may need oxygen therapy. Oxygen usually is given through nasal prongs or a mask.
                
If other treatments haven't worked, a lung transplant may be an option if you have severe lung disease. A lung transplant is surgery to remove a person's diseased lung and replace it with a healthy lung from a deceased donor.
                
Pulmonary Rehabilitation
                
Your doctor may recommend PR as part of your treatment plan. PR is a broad program that helps improve the well-being of people who have chronic (ongoing) breathing problems.
                
PR doesn't replace medical therapy. Instead, it's used with medical therapy and may include:
                
Exercise training
                
Nutritional counseling
                
Education on your lung disease or condition and how to manage it
                
Energy-conserving techniques
                
Breathing strategies
                
Psychological counseling and/or group support
                
PR has many benefits. It can improve your ability to function and your quality of life. The program also may help relieve your breathing problems. Even if you have advanced lung disease, you can still benefit from PR.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Pulmonary Rehabilitation article.
                
Treatment for Digestive Problems
                
CF can cause many digestive problems, such as bulky stools, intestinal gas, a swollen belly, severe constipation, and pain or discomfort. Digestive problems also can lead to poor growth and development in children.
                
Nutritional therapy can improve your strength and ability to stay active. It also can improve growth and development in children. Nutritional therapy also may make you strong enough to resist some lung infections. A nutritionist can help you create a nutritional plan that meets your needs.
                
In addition to having a well-balanced diet that's rich in calories, fat, and protein, your nutritional therapy may include:
                
Oral pancreatic enzymes to help you digest fats and proteins and absorb more vitamins.
                
Supplements of vitamins A, D, E, and K to replace the fat-soluble vitamins that your intestines can't absorb.
                
High-calorie shakes to provide you with extra nutrients.
                
A high-salt diet or salt supplements that you take before exercising.
                
A feeding tube to give you more calories at night while you're sleeping. The tube may be threaded through your nose and throat and into your stomach. Or, the tube may be placed directly into your stomach through a surgically made hole. Before you go to bed each night, you'll attach a bag with a nutritional solution to the entrance of the tube. It will feed you while you sleep.
                
Other treatments for digestive problems may include enemas and mucus-thinning medicines to treat intestinal blockages. Sometimes surgery is needed to remove an intestinal blockage.
                
Your doctor also may prescribe medicines to reduce your stomach acid and help oral pancreatic enzymes work better.
                
Treatments for Cystic Fibrosis Complications
                
A common complication of CF is diabetes. The type of diabetes associated with CF often requires different treatment than other types of diabetes.
                
Another common CF complication is the bone-thinning disorder osteoporosis. Your doctor may prescribe medicines that prevent your bones from losing their density.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: How to diagnose Diabetic Heart Disease ?
Answer: Your doctor will diagnose diabetic heart disease (DHD) based on your signs and symptoms, medical and family histories, a physical exam, and the results from tests and procedures.
                
Doctors and researchers are still trying to find out whether routine testing for DHD will benefit people who have diabetes but no heart disease symptoms.
                
Initial Tests
                
No single test can diagnose DHD, which may involve coronary heart disease (CHD), heart failure, and/or diabetic cardiomyopathy. Initially, your doctor may recommend one or more of the following tests.
                
Blood Pressure Measurement
                
To measure your blood pressure, your doctor or nurse will use some type of a gauge, a stethoscope (or electronic sensor), and a blood pressure cuff.
                
Most often, you'll sit or lie down with the cuff around your arm as your doctor or nurse checks your blood pressure. If he or she doesn't tell you what your blood pressure numbers are, you should ask.
                
Blood Tests
                
Blood tests check the levels of certain fats, cholesterol, sugar, and proteins in your blood. Abnormal levels of these substances may show that you're at risk for DHD.
                
A blood test also can check the level of a hormone called BNP (brain natriuretic peptide) in your blood. The heart makes BNP, and the level of BNP rises during heart failure.
                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x ray takes pictures of the organs and structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. A chest x ray can reveal signs of heart failure.
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
An EKG is a simple, painless test that detects and records your heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast your heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through your heart.
                
An EKG can show signs of heart damage due to CHD and signs of a previous or current heart attack.
                
Stress Test
                
Some heart problems are easier to diagnose when your heart is working hard and beating fast. Stress testing gives your doctor information about how your heart works during physical stress.
                
During a stress test, you exercise (walk or run on a treadmill or pedal a bicycle) to make your heart work hard and beat fast. Tests are done on your heart while you exercise. If you cant exercise, you may be given medicine to raise your heart rate.
                
Urinalysis
                
For this test, you'll give a sample of urine for analysis. The sample is checked for abnormal levels of protein or blood cells. In people who have diabetes, protein in the urine is a risk factor for DHD.
                
Other Tests and Procedures
                
Your doctor may refer you to a cardiologist if your initial test results suggest that you have a form of DHD. A cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating heart diseases and conditions.
                
The cardiologist may recommend other tests or procedures to get more detailed information about the nature and extent of your DHD.
                
For more information about other tests and procedures, go to the diagnosis sections of the Health Topics Coronary Heart Disease, Heart Failure, and Cardiomyopathy articles.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NHLBI
Question: What are the treatments for Kidney Failure: Choosing a Treatment That's Right for You ?
Answer: Conservative management for kidney failure is the choice to say no to or stop dialysis treatments. For many people, dialysis not only extends life, it also improves the quality of life. For others who have serious conditions in addition to kidney failure, dialysis may seem like a burden that only prolongs suffering. If you have serious conditions in addition to kidney failure, dialysis may not prolong your life or improve the quality of your life.
                
You have the right to say no to or stop dialysis. You may want to speak with your doctor, spouse, family, counselor, or renal social worker, who helps people with kidney disease, to help you make this decision.
                
If you stop dialysis treatments or say you do not want to begin them, you may live for a few weeks or for several months, depending on your health and your remaining kidney function. You may choose to receive care from a hospicea facility or home program designed to meet the physical and emotional needs of the terminally illduring this time. Hospice care focuses on relief of pain and other symptoms. Whether or not you choose to use a hospice, your doctor can give you medicines to make you more comfortable. Your doctor can also give you medicines to treat the problems of kidney failure, such as anemia or weak bones. You may restart dialysis treatment if you change your mind.
                
Advance Directives
                
An advance directive is a statement or document in which you give instructions either to withhold certain treatments, such as dialysis, or to provide them, depending on your wishes and the specific circumstances. Even if you are happy with your quality of life on dialysis, you should think about circumstances that might make you want to stop dialysis treatments. At some point in a medical crisis, you might lose the ability to tell your health care team and loved ones what you want. Advance directives may include
                
- a living will  - a durable power of attorney for health care decisions  - a do not resuscitate (DNR) ordera legal form that tells your health care team you do not want cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) or other life-sustaining treatment if your heart were to stop or if you were to stop breathing.
                
A living will is a document that details the conditions under which you would want to refuse treatment. You may state that you want your health care team to use all available means to sustain your life, or you may direct that you be withdrawn from dialysis if you fall into a coma from which you most likely wont wake up. In addition to dialysis, you may choose or refuse the following life-sustaining treatments:
                
- CPR  - feedings through a tube in your stomach  - mechanical or artificial means to help you breathe  - medicines to treat infections  - surgery  - receiving blood
                
Refusing to have CPR is the same as a DNR order. If you choose to have a DNR order, your doctor will place the order in your medical chart.
                
A durable power of attorney for health care decisions or a health care proxy is a document you use to assign a person to make health care decisions for you in the event you cannot make them for yourself. Make sure the person you name understands your values and will follow your instructions.
                
Each state has its own laws on advance directives. You can obtain a form for an advance medical directive thats valid in your state from the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organizationsee For More Information.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Xeroderma pigmentosum type 7 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Xeroderma pigmentosum type 7? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Xeroderma pigmentosum type 7. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Ataxia 5% Cataract 5% Growth delay 5% Microcephaly 5% Microphthalmia 5% Pes cavus 5% Spasticity 5% Tremor 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cutaneous photosensitivity - Defective DNA repair after ultraviolet radiation damage - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Say-Field-Coldwell syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Say-Field-Coldwell syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Say-Field-Coldwell syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the nose 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Preaxial hand polydactyly 90% Short stature 90% Triphalangeal thumb 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Recurrent patellar dislocation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose 15q13.3 microdeletion syndrome ?
Answer: Is genetic testing available for 15q13.3 microdeletion syndrome? Genetic testing for 15q13.3 microdeletion testing is available. GeneTests lists the names of laboratories that are performing genetic testing for 15q13.3 microdeletion syndrome. To view the contact information for the clinical laboratories conducting testing click here. Please note: Most of the laboratories listed through GeneTests do not accept direct contact from patients and their families; therefore, individuals who are interested in learning more should work with a health care provider or a genetics professional. Click here for a list of online resources for locating a genetics professional near you.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) generalized arterial calcification of infancy ?
Answer: Generalized arterial calcification of infancy (GACI) is a disorder affecting the circulatory system that becomes apparent before birth or within the first few months of life. It is characterized by abnormal accumulation of the mineral calcium (calcification) in the walls of the blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body (the arteries). This calcification often occurs along with thickening of the lining of the arterial walls (the intima). These changes lead to narrowing (stenosis) and stiffness of the arteries, which forces the heart to work harder to pump blood. As a result, heart failure may develop in affected individuals, with signs and symptoms including difficulty breathing, accumulation of fluid (edema) in the extremities, a bluish appearance of the skin or lips (cyanosis), severe high blood pressure (hypertension), and an enlarged heart (cardiomegaly).  People with GACI may also have calcification in other organs and tissues, particularly around the joints. In addition, they may have hearing loss or softening and weakening of the bones (rickets).  Some individuals with GACI also develop features similar to those of another disorder called pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE). PXE is characterized by the accumulation of calcium and other minerals (mineralization) in elastic fibers, which are a component of connective tissue. Connective tissue provides strength and flexibility to structures throughout the body. Features characteristic of PXE that also occur in GACI include yellowish bumps called papules on the underarms and other areas of skin that touch when a joint bends (flexor areas); and abnormalities called angioid streaks affecting tissue at the back of the eye, which can be detected during an eye examination.  As a result of the cardiovascular problems associated with GACI, individuals with this condition often do not survive past infancy, with death typically caused by a heart attack or stroke. However, affected individuals who survive their first six months, known as the critical period, can live into adolescence or early adulthood.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Enthesitis-related juvenile idiopathic arthritis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Enthesitis-related juvenile idiopathic arthritis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Enthesitis-related juvenile idiopathic arthritis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Arthritis 90% Inflammatory abnormality of the eye 90% Joint swelling 90% Abnormality of the teeth 50% Cartilage destruction 50% Enthesitis 50% Abnormal tendon morphology 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebral Atrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS funds research looking at many of the diseases and disorders that cause cerebral atrophy. Understanding the biological mechanisms that cause neurons to die in the brain will help researchers find ways to prevent, treat, and even cure the diseases that lead to cerebral atrophy.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the genetic changes related to hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IE ?
Answer: HSAN IE is caused by mutations in the DNMT1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 1. This enzyme is involved in DNA methylation, which is the addition of methyl groups, consisting of one carbon atom and three hydrogen atoms, to DNA molecules. In particular, the enzyme helps add methyl groups to DNA building blocks (nucleotides) called cytosines.  DNA methylation is important in many cellular functions. These include determining whether the instructions in a particular segment of DNA are carried out or suppressed (gene silencing), regulating reactions involving proteins and fats (lipids), and controlling the processing of chemicals that relay signals in the nervous system (neurotransmitters). DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 1 is active in the adult nervous system. Although its specific function is not well understood, the enzyme may help regulate nerve cell (neuron) maturation and specialization (differentiation), the ability of neurons to migrate where needed and connect with each other, and neuron survival.  DNMT1 gene mutations that cause HSAN IE reduce or eliminate the enzyme's methylation function, resulting in abnormalities in the maintenance of the neurons that make up the nervous system. However, it is not known how the mutations cause the specific signs and symptoms of HSAN IE.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Leigh syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of Leigh syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Mitochondrial DNA-Associated Leigh Syndrome and NARP  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Nuclear Gene-Encoded Leigh Syndrome Overview  - Genetic Testing Registry: Leigh Syndrome (mtDNA mutation)  - Genetic Testing Registry: Leigh Syndrome (nuclear DNA mutation)  - Genetic Testing Registry: Leigh syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Leigh syndrome, French Canadian type   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis ?
Answer: Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a neurological condition in which amyloid protein is deposited onto the walls of the arteries of the brain (and less frequently, veins).  Although CAA often does not cause symptoms, it may cause bleeding into the brain (hemorrhagic stroke), dementia, or neurologic episodes in some patients.  The majority of CAA cases occur in individuals who do not have a family history. However, two familial forms of CAA have been identified.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Kidney Stones in Adults ?
Answer: - A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in a kidney when substances that are normally found in the urine become highly concentrated.  - Kidney stones are one of the most common disorders of the urinary tract.  - Certain foods may promote stone formation in people who are susceptible, but scientists do not believe that eating any specific food causes stones to form in people who are not susceptible.  - People with kidney stones may have pain while urinating, see blood in the urine, or feel a sharp pain in the back or lower abdomen. However, people who have small stones that pass easily through the urinary tract may not have symptoms at all.  - To diagnose kidney stones, the health care provider will perform a physical exam and take a medical history. The health care provider may perform urine, blood, and imaging tests to complete the diagnosis.  - Treatment for kidney stones usually depends on their size and what they are made of, as well as whether they are causing pain or obstructing the urinary tract. Treatments may include shock wave lithotripsy, ureteroscopy, or percutaneous nephrolithotomy.  - Kidney stones may be prevented through changes in eating, diet, and nutrition and medications.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the treatments for galactosialidosis ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of galactosialidosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Combined deficiency of sialidase AND beta galactosidase  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hepatosplenomegaly (image)  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hydrops fetalis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia familial 2 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia familial 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia familial 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia - Hypoglycemia - Large for gestational age - Pancreatic islet-cell hyperplasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Rheumatic Fever ?
Answer: How is rheumatic fever diagnosed? A diagnosis of rheumatic fever is usually based on the following: Characteristic signs and symptoms identified by physical examination and/or specialized testing such as a blood test, chest X-ray and echocardiogram Confirmation of group A Streptococcus bacterial infection with a throat culture or blood tests The diagnosis can also be supported by blood tests that confirm the presence of certain proteins that increase in response to inflammation (called acute-phase reactants) and tend to be elevated in rheumatic fever. Additional tests may be recommended to rule out other conditions that cause similar features.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Loin pain hematuria syndrome ?
Answer: How is loin pain hematuria syndrome diagnosed? A diagnosis of loin pain hematuria syndrome is suspected based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms, after other conditions that cause similar features have been excluded. Severe hematuria (blood in urine) may be obvious; however, a urinalysis can be performed to detect microscopic levels of hematuria. In some cases, a kidney biopsy may also be recommended to evaluate the structure and function of the kidney.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Dumping Syndrome ?
Answer: The first step to minimizing symptoms of dumping syndrome involves changes in eating, diet, and nutrition, and may include
                
- eating five or six small meals a day instead of three larger meals  - delaying liquid intake until at least 30 minutes after a meal  - increasing intake of protein, fiber, and complex carbohydratesfound in starchy foods such as oatmeal and rice  - avoiding simple sugars such as table sugar, which can be found in candy, syrup, sodas, and juice beverages  - increasing the thickness of food by adding pectin or guar gumplant extracts used as thickening agents
                
Some people find that lying down for 30 minutes after meals also helps reduce symptoms.
                
Medication
                
A health care provider may prescribe octreotide acetate (Sandostatin) to treat dumping syndrome symptoms. The medication works by slowing gastric emptying and inhibiting the release of insulin and other GI hormones. Octreotide comes in short- and long-acting formulas. The short-acting formula is injected subcutaneouslyunder the skinor intravenouslyinto a veintwo to four times a day. A health care provider may perform the injections or may train the patient or patient's friend or relative to perform the injections. A health care provider injects the long-acting formula into the buttocks muscles once every 4 weeks. Complications of octreotide treatment include increased or decreased blood glucose levels, pain at the injection site, gallstones, and fatty, foul-smelling stools.
                
Surgery
                
A person may need surgery if dumping syndrome is caused by previous gastric surgery or if the condition is not responsive to other treatments. For most people, the type of surgery depends on the type of gastric surgery performed previously. However, surgery to correct dumping syndrome often has unsuccessful results.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: How many people are affected by aceruloplasminemia ?
Answer: Aceruloplasminemia has been seen worldwide, but its overall prevalence is unknown. Studies in Japan have estimated that approximately 1 in 2 million adults in this population are affected.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) What I need to know about Diverticular Disease ?
Answer: Diverticular* disease affects the colon. The colon is part of the large intestine that removes waste from your body. Diverticular disease is made up of two conditions: diverticulosis and diverticulitis. Diverticulosis occurs when pouches, called diverticula, form in the colon. These pouches bulge out like weak spots in a tire. Diverticulitis occurs if the pouches become inflamed.
                
*See the Pronunciation Guide for tips on how to say the words in bold type.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Streptococcal Infections ?
Answer: Strep is short for Streptococcus, a type of bacteria. There are two types: group A and group B.    Group A strep causes       - Strep throat - a sore, red throat, sometimes with white spots on the tonsils    - Scarlet fever - an illness that follows strep throat. It causes a red rash on the body.    - Impetigo - a skin infection    - Toxic shock syndrome    - Cellulitis and necrotizing fasciitis (flesh-eating disease)       Group B strep can cause blood infections, pneumonia and meningitis in newborns. A screening test during pregnancy can tell if you have it. If you do, I.V. antibiotics during labor can save your baby's life. Adults can also get group B strep infections, especially if they are elderly or already have health problems. Strep B can cause urinary tract infections, blood infections, skin infections and pneumonia in adults.    Antibiotics are used to treat strep infections.    NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: How many people are affected by type 1 diabetes ?
Answer: Type 1 diabetes occurs in 10 to 20 per 100,000 people per year in the United States. By age 18, approximately 1 in 300 people in the United States develop type 1 diabetes. The disorder occurs with similar frequencies in Europe, the United Kingdom, Canada, and New Zealand. Type 1 diabetes occurs much less frequently in Asia and South America, with reported incidences as low as 1 in 1 million per year. For unknown reasons, during the past 20 years the worldwide incidence of type 1 diabetes has been increasing by 2 to 5 percent each year.  Type 1 diabetes accounts for 5 to 10 percent of cases of diabetes worldwide. Most people with diabetes have type 2 diabetes, in which the body continues to produce insulin but becomes less able to use it.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is the outlook for Spinal Cord Injury ?
Answer: Spinal cord injuries are classified as either complete or incomplete. An incomplete injury means that the ability of the spinal cord to convey messages to or from the brain is not completely lost. People with incomplete injuries retain some motor or sensory function below the injury. A complete injury is indicated by a total lack of sensory and motor function below the level of injury. People who survive a spinal cord injury will most likely have medical complications such as chronic pain and bladder and bowel dysfunction, along with an increased susceptibility to respiratory and heart problems. Successful recovery depends upon how well these chronic conditions are handled day to day.
                
Surgery to relieve compression of the spinal tissue by surrounding bones broken or dislocated by the injury is often necessary, through timing of such surgery may vary widely. A recent prospective multicenter trial called STASCIS is exploring whether performing decompression surgery early (less than 24 hours following injury) can improve outcomes for patients with bone fragments or other tissues pressing on the spinal cord.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the treatments for Hydranencephaly ?
Answer: How might hydranencephaly be treated? Unfortunately, there is no definitive treatment for hydranencephaly. Management of the condition typically focuses on the specific signs and symptoms present in the affected individual and is mostly supportive. Hydrocephalus (the buildup of too much cerebral spinal fluid in the brain) may be treated with a shunt (a surgically implanted tube that helps to drain fluid from the brain).
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Do you have information about CPR
Answer: Summary : When someone's blood flow or breathing stops, seconds count. Permanent brain damage or death can happen quickly. If you know how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), you could save a life. CPR is an emergency procedure for a person whose heart has stopped or is no longer breathing. CPR can maintain circulation and breathing until emergency medical help arrives.    Even if you haven't had training, you can do "hands-only" CPR for a teen or adult whose heart has stopped beating ("hands-only" CPR isn't recommended for children). "Hands-only" CPR uses chest compressions to keep blood circulating until emergency help arrives. If you've had training, you can use chest compressions, clear the airway, and do rescue breathing. Rescue breathing helps get oxygen to the lungs for a person who has stopped breathing. To keep your skills up, you should repeat the training every two years.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: Alzheimer's disease has three stages: early (also called mild), middle (moderate), and late (severe). A person in the early stage of Alzheimers may - find it hard to remember things  -  ask the same questions over and over  -  get lost in familiar places  -  lose things or put them in odd places  - have trouble handling money and paying bills  - take longer than normal to finish daily tasks. find it hard to remember things ask the same questions over and over get lost in familiar places lose things or put them in odd places have trouble handling money and paying bills take longer than normal to finish daily tasks. As Alzheimers disease progresses to the middle stage, memory loss and confusion grow worse, and people may have problems recognizing family and friends. Other symptoms are this stage include -  difficulty learning new things and coping with new situations  - trouble carrying out tasks that involve multiple steps, like getting dressed  -  impulsive behavior  - forgetting the names of common things  - hallucinations, delusions, or paranoia  - wandering away from home. difficulty learning new things and coping with new situations trouble carrying out tasks that involve multiple steps, like getting dressed impulsive behavior forgetting the names of common things hallucinations, delusions, or paranoia wandering away from home. As Alzheimers disease becomes more severe, people lose the ability to communicate. They may sleep more, lose weight, and have trouble swallowing. Often they are incontinentthey cannot control their bladder and/or bowels. Eventually, they need total care.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: How many people are affected by pachyonychia congenita ?
Answer: Although the prevalence of pachyonychia congenita is unknown, it appears to be rare. There are probably several thousand people worldwide with this disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of FXTAS:  - Fragile X Research Foundation of Canada: FXTAS  - Gene Review: Gene Review: FMR1-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fragile X tremor/ataxia syndrome  - Merck Manual Consumer Version   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Microphthalmia mental deficiency ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Microphthalmia mental deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Microphthalmia mental deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Joint hypermobility 5% Overlapping toe 5% Agenesis of corpus callosum - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar hypoplasia - Cerebral atrophy - Congenital cataract - Cryptorchidism - Deeply set eye - External genital hypoplasia - Facial hypertrichosis - Failure to thrive - Hyperreflexia - Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum - Intellectual disability - Kyphoscoliosis - Macrotia - Microcephaly - Microcornea - Microphthalmia - Muscular hypotonia - Optic atrophy - Osteoporosis - Ptosis - Short stature - Spastic diplegia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is Klinefelter syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Klinefelter syndrome inherited? Klinefelter syndrome is not inherited, but usually occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). An error in cell division called nondisjunction can result in reproductive cells with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain one or more extra copies of the X chromosome as a result of nondisjunction. If one of these reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have one or several extra X chromosomes in each of the body's cells.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for Mitochondrial complex II deficiency ?
Answer: How might mitochondrial complex II deficiency be treated? Treatment options for complex II deficiency may be similar to those for other mitochondrial disorders in general.[8677] The United Mitochondrial Disease Foundation (UMDF) provides detailed information on treatment through their Web site at: http://www.umdf.org/site/pp.aspx?c=8qKOJ0MvF7LUG&b=7934635 We strongly recommend that you discuss this information with a healthcare provider.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: Is sialic acid storage disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What causes Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: The most common cause of hemolytic uremic syndrome in children is an Escherichia coli (E. coli) infection of the digestive system. The digestive system is made up of the gastrointestinal, or GI, tracta series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anusand other organs that help the body break down and absorb food.
                
Normally, harmless strains, or types, of E. coli are found in the intestines and are an important part of digestion. However, if a child becomes infected with the O157:H7 strain of E. coli, the bacteria will lodge in the digestive tract and produce toxins that can enter the bloodstream. The toxins travel through the bloodstream and can destroy the red blood cells. E.coli O157:H7 can be found in
                
- undercooked meat, most often ground beef  - unpasteurized, or raw, milk  - unwashed, contaminated raw fruits and vegetables  - contaminated juice  - contaminated swimming pools or lakes
                
Less common causes, sometimes called atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, can include
                
- taking certain medications, such as chemotherapy  - having other viral or bacterial infections  - inheriting a certain type of hemolytic uremicsyndrome that runs in families
                
More information about foodborne illnesses and the digestive system is provided in the NIDDK health topic, foodborne illnesses.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What are the symptoms of Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Symptoms Most cancers in their early, most treatable stages don't cause any symptoms. Early prostate cancer usually does not cause symptoms. However, if prostate cancer develops and is not treated, it can cause these symptoms: - a need to urinate frequently, especially at night  - difficulty starting urination or holding back urine  - inability to urinate  - weak or interrupted flow of urine  - painful or burning urination  - difficulty in having an erection  - painful ejaculation  - blood in urine or semen  - pain or stiffness in the lower back, hips, or upper thighs. a need to urinate frequently, especially at night difficulty starting urination or holding back urine inability to urinate weak or interrupted flow of urine painful or burning urination difficulty in having an erection painful ejaculation blood in urine or semen pain or stiffness in the lower back, hips, or upper thighs. Any of these symptoms may be caused by cancer, but more often they are due to enlargement of the prostate, which is not cancer. If You Have Symptoms If you have any of these symptoms, see your doctor or a urologist to find out if you need treatment. A urologist is a doctor who specializes in treating diseases of the genitourinary system. The doctor will ask questions about your medical history and perform an exam to try to find the cause of the prostate problems. The PSA Test The doctor may also suggest a blood test to check your prostate specific antigen, or PSA, level. PSA levels can be high not only in men who have prostate cancer, but also in men with an enlarged prostate gland and men with infections of the prostate. PSA tests may be very useful for early cancer diagnosis. However, PSA tests alone do not always tell whether or not cancer is present. PSA screening for prostate cancer is not perfect. (Screening tests check for disease in a person who shows no symptoms.) Most men with mildly elevated PSA do not have prostate cancer, and many men with prostate cancer have normal levels of PSA. A recent study revealed that men with low prostate specific antigen levels, or PSA, may still have prostate cancer. Also, the digital rectal exam can miss many prostate cancers. Other Tests The doctor may order other exams, including ultrasound, MRI, or CT scans, to learn more about the cause of the symptoms. But to confirm the presence of cancer, doctors must perform a biopsy. During a biopsy, the doctor uses needles to remove small tissue samples from the prostate and then looks at the samples under a microscope. If Cancer is Present If a biopsy shows that cancer is present, the doctor will report on the grade of the tumor. Doctors describe a tumor as low, medium, or high-grade cancer, based on the way it appears under the microscope. One way of grading prostate cancer, called the Gleason system, uses scores of 2 to 10. Another system uses G1 through G4. The higher the score, the higher the grade of the tumor. High-grade tumors grow more quickly and are more likely to spread than low-grade tumors.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is Mosaic trisomy 9 inherited ?
Answer: Is mosaic trisomy 9  inherited? Mosaic trisomy 9 is usually not inherited. It often occurs sporadically as a random event during the formation of the reproductive cells (egg and sperm) or as the fertilized egg divides. In rare cases, mosaic trisomy 9 may be inherited from a parent with a chromosomal rearrangement called a "pericentric inversion." This occurs when a segment of chromosome 9 has broken off in two places, swiveled round 180 degrees and reinserted itself into the chromosome. In these cases, the parent has a "balanced" rearrangement, meaning the piece of chromosome is in a different order but no genetic material is gained or lost. Carriers of a balanced rearrangement typically to not have any symptoms or health problems. However, they may be at an increased risk of having children with an abnormal number or chromosomes.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency ?
Answer: Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency is an inherited disorder that causes lactic acid and other potentially toxic compounds to accumulate in the blood. High levels of these substances can damage the body's organs and tissues, particularly in the nervous system. Researchers have identified at least three types of pyruvate carboxylase deficiency, types A, B, and C, which are distinguished by the severity of their signs and symptoms. This condition is caused by mutations in the PC gene and inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How to diagnose Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Tests that examine the prostate and blood are used to detect (find) and diagnose prostate cancer. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   Digital rectal exam (DRE): An exam of the rectum. The doctor or nurse inserts a lubricated, gloved finger into the rectum and feels the prostate through the rectal wall for lumps or abnormal areas.     -   Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test : A test that measures the level of PSA in the blood. PSA is a substance made by the prostate that may be found in an increased amount in the blood of men who have prostate cancer. PSA levels may also be high in men who have an infection or inflammation of the prostate or BPH (an enlarged, but noncancerous, prostate).    -   Transrectal ultrasound : A procedure in which a probe that is about the size of a finger is inserted into the rectum to check the prostate. The probe is used to bounce high-energy sound waves (ultrasound) off internal tissues or organs and make echoes. The echoes form a picture of body tissues called a sonogram. Transrectal ultrasound may be used during a biopsy procedure.    -  Transrectal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): A procedure that uses a strong magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. A probe that gives off radio waves is inserted into the rectum near the prostate. This helps the MRI machine make clearer pictures of the prostate and nearby tissue. A transrectal MRI is done to find out if the cancer has spread outside the prostate into nearby tissues. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -  Biopsy: The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist. The pathologist will check the tissue sample to see if there are cancer cells and find out the Gleason score. The Gleason score ranges from 2-10 and describes how likely it is that a tumor will spread. The lower the number, the less likely the tumor is to spread.  A transrectal biopsy is used to diagnose prostate cancer. A transrectal biopsy is the removal of tissue from the prostate by inserting a thin needle through the rectum and into the prostate. This procedure is usually done using transrectal ultrasound to help guide where samples of tissue are taken from. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: How many people are affected by lymphangioleiomyomatosis ?
Answer: Sporadic LAM is estimated to occur in 2 to 5 per million women worldwide. This condition may be underdiagnosed because its symptoms are similar to those of other lung disorders such as asthma, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the genetic changes related to Kawasaki disease ?
Answer: The causes of Kawasaki disease are not well understood. The disorder is generally regarded as being the result of an abnormal immune system activation, but the triggers of this abnormal response are unknown. Because cases of the disorder tend to cluster geographically and by season, researchers have suggested that an infection may be involved. However, no infectious agent (such as a virus or bacteria) has been identified.  A variation in the ITPKC gene has been associated with an increased risk of Kawasaki disease. The ITPKC gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase C. This enzyme helps limit the activity of immune system cells called T cells. T cells identify foreign substances and defend the body against infection. Reducing the activity of T cells when appropriate prevents the overproduction of immune proteins called cytokines that lead to inflammation and which, in excess, cause tissue damage. Researchers suggest that the ITPKC gene variation may interfere with the body's ability to reduce T cell activity, leading to inflammation that damages blood vessels and results in the signs and symptoms of Kawasaki disease.  It appears likely that other factors, including changes in other genes, also influence the development of this complex disorder.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Dehydrated hereditary stomatocytosis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Dehydrated hereditary stomatocytosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dehydrated hereditary stomatocytosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cholelithiasis 5% Hemoglobinuria 5% Hepatitis 5% Hepatomegaly 5% Increased serum ferritin 5% Jaundice 5% Pallor 5% Splenomegaly 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Exercise-induced hemolysis - Increased red cell hemolysis by shear stress - Reticulocytosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 10 ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 10? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia 10. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal pyramidal signs - Abnormality of extrapyramidal motor function - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Decreased nerve conduction velocity - Dementia - Depression - Dysarthria - Dysdiadochokinesis - Dysmetria - Dysphagia - Gait ataxia - Genetic anticipation - Hyperreflexia - Incomplete penetrance - Incoordination - Limb ataxia - Morphological abnormality of the pyramidal tract - Nystagmus - Progressive cerebellar ataxia - Scanning speech - Seizures - Urinary incontinence - Urinary urgency - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the treatments for hypercholesterolemia ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of hypercholesterolemia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Familial Hypercholesterolemia  - GeneFacts: Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Diagnosis  - GeneFacts: Familial Hypercholesterolemia: Management  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial hypercholesterolemia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hypercholesterolemia, autosomal dominant, 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hypercholesterolemia, autosomal dominant, type B  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hypercholesterolemia, autosomal recessive  - Genomics Education Programme (UK)  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Familial hypercholesterolemia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: High blood cholesterol and triglycerides  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Xanthoma   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Abscess ?
Answer: An abscess is a pocket of pus. You can get an abscess almost anywhere in your body. When an area of your body becomes infected, your body's immune system tries to fight the infection. White blood cells go to the infected area, collect within the damaged tissue, and cause inflammation. During this process, pus forms. Pus is a mixture of living and dead white blood cells, germs, and dead tissue.     Bacteria, viruses, parasites and swallowed objects can all lead to abscesses. Skin abscesses are easy to detect. They are red, raised and painful. Abscesses inside your body may not be obvious and can damage organs, including the brain, lungs and others. Treatments include drainage and antibiotics.
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Melanoma ?
Answer: Signs of melanoma include a change in the way a mole or pigmented area looks. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by melanoma or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         - A mole that:                - changes in size, shape, or color.      - has irregular edges or borders.      - is more than one color.      - is asymmetrical (if the mole is divided in half, the 2 halves are different in size or shape).      - itches.      -  oozes, bleeds, or is ulcerated (a hole forms in the skin when the top layer of cells breaks down and the tissue below shows through).             - A change in pigmented (colored) skin.     - Satellite moles (new moles that grow near an existing mole).        For pictures and descriptions of common moles and melanoma, see Common Moles, Dysplastic Nevi, and Risk of Melanoma.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CancerGov
Question: What is (are) GM1 gangliosidosis type 1 ?
Answer: GM1 gangliosidosis is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder that progressively destroys nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and spinal cord. The condition may be classified into three major types based on the general age that signs and symptoms first appear: classic infantile (type 1); juvenile (type 2); and adult onset or chronic (type 3). Although the types differ in severity, their features may overlap significantly. GM1 gangliosidosis is caused by mutations in the GLB1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is currently symptomatic and supportive.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Dystonia ?
Answer: Dystonia is a movement disorder that causes involuntary contractions of your muscles. These contractions result in twisting and repetitive movements. Sometimes they are painful.    Dystonia can affect just one muscle, a group of muscles or all of your muscles. Symptoms can include tremors, voice problems or a dragging foot. Symptoms often start in childhood. They can also start in the late teens or early adulthood. Some cases worsen over time. Others are mild.    Some people inherit dystonia. Others have it because of another disease. Researchers think that dystonia may be due to a problem in the part of the brain that handles messages about muscle contractions. There is no cure. Doctors use medicines, Botox injections, surgery, physical therapy, and other treatments to reduce or eliminate muscle spasms and pain.    NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for phenylketonuria ?
Answer: These resources address the diagnosis or management of phenylketonuria:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Phenylalanine Hydroxylase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Phenylketonuria  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Phenylketonuria  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Serum Phenylalanine Screening   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the symptoms of Cataract, total congenital ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Cataract, total congenital? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cataract, total congenital. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Congenital nuclear cataract - Severe visual impairment - Sutural cataract - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What causes Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?
Answer: Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live in the bowel. The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli) causes the vast majority of UTIs. The urinary tract has several systems to prevent infection. The points where the ureters attach to the bladder act like one-way valves to prevent urine from backing up, or refluxing, toward the kidneys, and urination washes microbes out of the body. Immune defenses also prevent infection. But despite these safeguards, infections still occur. Certain bacteria have a strong ability to attach themselves to the lining of the urinary tract.
                
Children who often delay urination are more likely to develop UTIs. Regular urination helps keep the urinary tract sterile by flushing away bacteria. Holding in urine allows bacteria to grow. Producing too little urine because of inadequate fluid intake can also increase the risk of developing a UTI. Chronic constipationa condition in which a child has fewer than two bowel movements a weekcan add to the risk of developing a UTI. When the bowel is full of hard stool, it presses against the bladder and bladder neck, blocking the flow of urine and allowing bacteria to grow.
                
Some children develop UTIs because they are prone to such infections, just as other children are prone to getting coughs, colds, or ear infections.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase deficiency ?
Answer: Succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase (SCOT) deficiency is an inherited disorder that impairs the body's ability to break down ketones, which are molecules produced in the liver during the breakdown of fats.  The signs and symptoms of SCOT deficiency typically appear within the first few years of life. Affected individuals experience episodes of extreme tiredness (lethargy), appetite loss, vomiting, rapid breathing, and, occasionally, seizures. These episodes, which are called ketoacidotic attacks, sometimes lead to coma. About half of affected individuals have a ketoacidotic attack within the first 4 days of life. Affected individuals have no symptoms of the disorder between ketoacidotic attacks.  People with SCOT deficiency usually have a permanently elevated level of ketones in their blood (persistent ketosis). If the level of ketones gets too high, which can be brought on by infections, fevers, or periods without food (fasting), a ketoacidotic attack can occur. The frequency of ketoacidotic attacks varies among affected individuals.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What are the treatments for Syncope ?
Answer: The immediate treatment for an individual who has fainted involves checking first to see if their airway is open and they are breathing. The person should remain lying down for at least 10-15 minutes, preferably in a cool and quiet space. If this isnt possible, have the individual sit forward and lower their head below their shoulders and between their knees. Ice or cold water in a cup is refreshing. For individuals who have problems with chronic fainting spells, therapy should focus on recognizing the triggers and learning techniques to keep from fainting. At the appearance of warning signs such as lightheadedness, nausea, or cold and clammy skin, counter-pressure maneuvers that involve gripping fingers into a fist, tensing the arms, and crossing the legs or squeezing the thighs together can be used to ward off a fainting spell. If fainting spells occur often without a triggering event, syncope may be a sign of an underlying heart disease.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: Who is at risk for Acinetobacter in Healthcare Settings? ?
Answer: Acinetobacter poses very little risk to healthy people. However, people who have weakened immune systems, chronic lung disease, or diabetes may be more susceptible to infections with Acinetobacter. Hospitalized patients, especially very ill patients on a ventilator, those with a prolonged hospital stay, those who have open wounds, or any person with invasive devices like urinary catheters are also at greater risk for Acinetobacter infection. Acinetobacter can be spread to susceptible persons by person-to-person contact or contact with contaminated surfaces.
The source for the previous passage of information is: CDC
Question: How many people are affected by cherubism ?
Answer: The incidence of cherubism is unknown. At least 250 cases have been reported worldwide.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
Question: What is (are) Hearing Disorders and Deafness ?
Answer: It's frustrating to be unable to hear well enough to enjoy talking with friends or family. Hearing disorders make it hard, but not impossible, to hear. They can often be helped. Deafness can keep you from hearing sound at all.     What causes hearing loss? Some possibilities are       - Heredity    - Diseases such as ear infections and meningitis     - Trauma    - Certain medicines    - Long-term exposure to loud noise    - Aging       There are two main types of hearing loss. One happens when your inner ear or auditory nerve is damaged. This type is usually permanent. The other kind happens when sound waves cannot reach your inner ear. Earwax build-up, fluid, or a punctured eardrum can cause it. Treatment or surgery can often reverse this kind of hearing loss.    Untreated, hearing problems can get worse. If you have trouble hearing, you can get help. Possible treatments include hearing aids, cochlear implants, special training, certain medicines, and surgery.    NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the symptoms of Pachyonychia congenita ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Pachyonychia congenita? The signs and symptoms of pachyonychia congenita (PC) vary based on the specific keratin gene involved (KRT6A, KRT6B, KRT6C, KRT16, and KRT17) and the specific gene mutation. However, the most common features of the condition include: Thickened nails Plantar hyperkeratosis (thickened skin on the soles of the feet) with underlying blisters Plantar pain Various types of cysts (i.e. steatocystoma and pilosebaceous cysts - two types of sebaceous gland cysts) Follicular hyperkeratosis (small bumps at the base of hairs) Leukokeratosis (white patches on the tongue, in the mouth, or on the inside of the cheek) Some affected people may also develop calluses on the palms of the hands (palmar hyperkeratosis), sores at the corner of the mouth; natal teeth; a hoarse cry or voice caused by white film on the larynx (voice box); and/or intense pain when beginning to eat or swallow. For more specific information on the signs and symptoms of PC, including specific features that are not associated with the condition, please visit the Pachyonychia Congenita Project's Web site. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pachyonychia congenita. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of nail color 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Hyperhidrosis 90% Abnormal blistering of the skin 50% Anonychia 50% Carious teeth 50% Ichthyosis 50% Neoplasm of the skin 50% Alopecia 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Corneal dystrophy 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Laryngomalacia 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Chapped lip - Dry hair - Epidermoid cyst - Follicular hyperkeratosis - Furrowed tongue - Gingivitis - Heterogeneous - Hoarse voice - Nail dysplasia - Nail dystrophy - Natal tooth - Onychogryposis of toenails - Oral leukoplakia - Palmar hyperkeratosis - Palmoplantar hyperhidrosis - Palmoplantar hyperkeratosis - Palmoplantar keratoderma - Plantar hyperkeratosis - Sparse eyebrow - Sparse scalp hair - Steatocystoma multiplex - Subungual hyperkeratosis - Thick nail - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Eye Diseases ?
Answer: Some eye problems are minor and don't last long. But some can lead to a permanent loss of vision.    Common eye problems include       - Refractive errors    - Cataracts - clouded lenses    - Glaucoma - a disorder caused by damage to the optic nerve    - Retinal disorders - problems with the nerve layer at the back of the eye    - Macular degeneration - a disease that destroys sharp, central vision    - Diabetic eye problems    - Conjunctivitis - an infection also known as pinkeye       Your best defense is to have regular checkups, because eye diseases do not always have symptoms. Early detection and treatment could prevent vision loss. See an eye care professional right away if you have a sudden change in vision, if everything looks dim, or if you see flashes of light. Other symptoms that need quick attention are pain, double vision, fluid coming from the eye, and inflammation.    NIH: National Eye Institute
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What is (are) Stuttering ?
Answer: Stuttering is a problem that affects the flow of your speech. If you stutter, you may        -  Make certain words sound longer than they should be    -  Find it hard to start a new word     -  Repeat words or parts of words     -  Get tense when you try to speak. You may blink your eyes rapidly, or your lips and jaw may tremble as you struggle to get the words out.       Stuttering can affect anyone. It is most common in young children who are still learning to speak. Boys are three times more likely to stutter than girls. Most children stop stuttering as they grow older. Less than 1 percent of adults stutter.    Scientists don't fully understand why some people stutter. The problem seems to run in families. There is no cure, but treatments can help. They include stuttering therapy, electronic devices, and self-help groups. Starting stuttering therapy early for young children can keep it from becoming a lifelong problem.     NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
The source for the previous passage of information is: MPlusHealthTopics
Question: What are the treatments for Schilder's Disease ?
Answer: Treatment for the disorder follows the established standards in multiple sclerosis and includes corticosteroids, beta-interferon or immunosuppressive therapy, and symptomatic treatment.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NINDS
Question: What are the symptoms of Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome? The symptoms of Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS) are highly variable, ranging from mild to severe. People with this condition typically have limb anomalies, which may include one or more extra fingers or toes (polydactyly), an abnormally wide thumb or big toe (hallux), and the skin between the fingers and toes may be fused (cutaneous syndactyly). This disorder is also characterized by widely spaced eyes (ocular hypertelorism), an abnormally large head size (macrocephaly), and a high, prominent forehead. Rarely, affected individuals may have more serious medical problems including seizures, developmental delay, and intellectual disability. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) 1-3 toe syndactyly 90% Macrocephaly 90% Postaxial hand polydactyly 90% Preaxial foot polydactyly 90% Broad hallux 89% Wide nasal bridge 79% High forehead 70% Frontal bossing 58% Abnormality of the nose 50% Accelerated skeletal maturation 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Hypertelorism 50% Telecanthus 50% Toe syndactyly 50% 3-4 finger syndactyly 33% Broad hallux phalanx 33% Broad thumb 33% Abnormal heart morphology 7.5% Abnormality of muscle fibers 7.5% Agenesis of corpus callosum 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Camptodactyly of toe 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 7.5% Craniosynostosis 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Delayed cranial suture closure 7.5% Hirsutism 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Hyperglycemia 7.5% Hypospadias 7.5% Inguinal hernia 7.5% Intellectual disability, mild 7.5% Joint contracture of the hand 7.5% Postaxial foot polydactyly 7.5% Preaxial hand polydactyly 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Umbilical hernia 7.5% Metopic synostosis 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Dolichocephaly - Trigonocephaly - Variable expressivity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Camptodactyly taurinuria ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Camptodactyly taurinuria? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Camptodactyly taurinuria. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Increased urinary taurine - Knee dislocation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Wolman disease ?
Answer: Wolman disease is a type of lysosomal storage disorder. It is an inherited condition that causes a buildup of lipids (fats) in body organs and calcium deposits in the adrenal glands. Common symptoms in infants include enlarged liver and spleen, poor weight gain, low muscle tone, jaundice, vomiting, diarrhea, developmental delay, anemia, and poor absorption of nutrients from food. Wolman disease is caused by mutations in the LIPA gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. The condition is severe and life-threatening, however new therapies, such as bone marrow transplantation, have shown promise in improving the outlook of children with this disease. Enzyme replacement therapy is also being developed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Neuropathy, hereditary motor and sensory, Okinawa type ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Neuropathy, hereditary motor and sensory, Okinawa type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Neuropathy, hereditary motor and sensory, Okinawa type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hand tremor 5% Adult onset - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Decreased number of peripheral myelinated nerve fibers - Degeneration of anterior horn cells - Distal sensory impairment - Fasciculations - Gait disturbance - Gliosis - Hyperlipidemia - Mildly elevated creatine phosphokinase - Peripheral neuropathy - Proximal amyotrophy - Proximal muscle weakness - Slow progression - Tetraplegia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What to do for Financial Help for Diabetes Care ?
Answer: - Diabetes management and treatment is expensive. Many people who have diabetes need help paying for their care. For those who qualify, a variety of government and nongovernment programs can help cover health care expenses.  - Health insurance helps pay for medical care, including the cost of diabetes care. Health insurance options include private health insurance and government health insurance.  - Insurance companies sell private health insurance plans. Two types of private health insurance are group health insurance and individual health insurance.  - Medicare is a federal health insurance program that pays health care costs for eligible people who are age 65 or older, under age 65 with certain disabilities, or of any age with end-stage renal disease.  - Medicaid is a state health insurance program for those with low incomes and few assets. Each state runs its own program.  - The Childrens Health Insurance Program (CHIP) gives free or low-cost Medicaid to children whose parents earn too much for Medicaid, though not enough to pay for a health plan.  - Many local governments have public health departments that can help people who need medical care. Local resources such as charitable groups may offer financial help for some expenses related to diabetes.  - People should talk with their health care providers if they have problems paying for diabetes medications. Less expensive generic medications for diabetes, blood pressure, and cholesterol are available. If a health care provider prescribes medications that a person cannot afford, the person should ask the health care provider about cheaper alternatives.  - Health care providers may also be able to assist people who need help paying for their medications and diabetes testing supplies, such as glucose test strips, by providing free samples or referring them to local programs. Drug companies that sell insulin or diabetes medications often have patient assistance programs.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIDDK
Question: What is (are) Hydrops, Ectopic calcification, Moth-eaten skeletal dysplasia ?
Answer: HEM (hydrops fetalis, ectopic calcifications, "moth-eaten" skeletal dysplasia) is a very rare type of lethal skeletal dysplasia. According to the reported cases of HEM in the medical literature, the condition's main features are hydrops fetalis, dwarfism with severely shortened limbs and relatively normal-sized hands and feet, a "moth-eaten" appearance of the skeleton, flat vertebral bodies and ectopic calcifications. HEM is an autosomal recessive condition caused by a mutation in the lamin B receptor (LBR) gene. No treatment or cure is currently known for HEM.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What is (are) Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?
Answer: When gingivitis is not treated, it can advance to periodontitis (which means "inflammation around the tooth.") In periodontitis, gums pull away from the teeth and form "pockets" that become infected. The body's immune system fights the bacteria as the plaque spreads and grows below the gum line. Bacterial toxins and the body's enzymes fighting the infection actually start to break down the bone and tissue that hold teeth in place. If not treated, the bones, gums, and tissue that support the teeth are destroyed. The teeth may eventually become loose and have to be removed.
The source for the previous passage of information is: NIHSeniorHealth
Question: Is Glycogen storage disease type 4 inherited ?
Answer: How is glycogen storage disease type 4 inherited? Glycogen storage disease type 4 is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that an individual must have 2 abnormal copies of the GBE1 gene to be affected (one abnormal copy inherited from each parent). Individuals with one abnormal copy of the GBE1 gene, such as the parents of an affected individual, are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms of an autosomal recessive condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition are having children, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to not be a carrier and not be affected.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: What are the symptoms of Malignant hyperthermia arthrogryposis torticollis ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Malignant hyperthermia arthrogryposis torticollis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Malignant hyperthermia arthrogryposis torticollis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Camptodactyly of finger 90% Congenital muscular torticollis 90% Facial asymmetry 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Long philtrum 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Plagiocephaly 90% Prominent metopic ridge 90% Scoliosis 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 90% Talipes 90% Tapered finger 90% Ulnar deviation of finger 90% Webbed neck 90% Abnormality of the nipple 50% Abnormality of the voice 50% Amniotic constriction ring 50% Arachnodactyly 50% Cleft palate 50% Conductive hearing impairment 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Downturned corners of mouth 50% Malignant hyperthermia 50% Mask-like facies 50% Narrow mouth 50% Pectus excavatum 50% Prominent nasal bridge 50% Ptosis 50% Scrotal hypoplasia 50% Short stature 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Abnormality of the skin 7.5% Advanced eruption of teeth 7.5% Asymmetric growth 7.5% Broad alveolar ridges 7.5% Dolichocephaly 7.5% Exaggerated cupid's bow 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Full cheeks 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Hypotelorism 7.5% Kyphosis 7.5% Malar flattening 7.5% Muscular hypotonia 7.5% Polyhydramnios 7.5% Prenatal movement abnormality 7.5% Proptosis 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Sloping forehead 7.5% Abnormality of the mandible - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Natal tooth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GARD
Question: How many people are affected by Silver syndrome ?
Answer: Although Silver syndrome appears to be a rare condition, its exact prevalence is unknown.
The source for the previous passage of information is: GHR
